[Music]
The key driver of this bull market has
been AI and tech. We're becoming still
very dependent on a smaller handful of
stocks.
>> As investors, what we need to do is
separate out what is the medium-term
trend from the short-term cyclical
trading trend.
>> Next year, we do see earnings improving
10%.
>> We have Q3 earnings coming up. We don't
have a beat and a raise. I think you
will see a pullback in the market. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Blimp surveillance
starts right now. Coming into Wednesday,
finding some stability. Equity futures
inching higher after pulling back from
all-time highs as Fed chair J Pal is
suggesting stock markets are highly
valued. Alibaba surging towards
four-year highs after revealing plans to
ramp up AI spending. those spending
plans just keep on growing.
>> Look, there's a lot to unpack here with
Alibaba and the Chinese presence and
where exactly they'll invest, but in a
broader landscape. We were talking
yesterday about the fear of circular
investing and whether this is
potentially 1999 type behavior in big
tech. The real issue is there still is
fear of not investing enough, not about
wasting money. And Sam Alman uh the CEO
of OpenAI yesterday was saying
ultimately maybe people will get burned
but there still is the promise that
truly will come through.
>> Evaluations are high but the spending is
real. Listen to these numbers from Bara
this morning anticipating overall
investment in AI accelerating to some $4
trillion worldwide over the next 5
years.
>> And it's not just Alibaba last night. We
heard from OpenAI and what they're doing
with Oracle in terms of SCAR Stargate
and that expansion. Micron talking about
a better forecast because of AI demand.
What I find interesting is this morning,
just in the past 40 minutes, Axio is
reporting that a group of CEOs are
getting together and as of today,
they're starting a huge ad campaign like
the Docu Sign CEO to push companies and
governments to speed up their efforts to
adopt AI. Well, in order to adopt AI,
you have to have the infrastructure in
place. You have to have the right
individuals working uh these kinds of
jobs. When is this going to be a ton of
push back and maybe some regulation
coming out of Washington? Just to put
this into perspective, I keep going back
to OpenAI, especially after our
conversation with Gilurio yesterday,
talking about how maybe this is
excessive. The $850 billion expansion
that they have planned is equal to the
output of 17 nuclear plants. It could
power 13 million American homes. This
expansion is fast and furious. Some
people say it's appropriate, other
people say they're bottlenecks, other
people saying ultimately it cannot be
done. But this is the scale of what
we're talking about. But talking about
this circular market, one analyst had
the best take yesterday. It's kind of
like having your parents co-sign your
first mortgage.
>> The stock keeps climbing. Alibaba up by
9% in the pre-market so far this
morning. Equity futures up by about a
tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Peter Cheer of Academy
with stocks looking to bounce back.
Harold Pendris of City as global makers,
global auto makers face a tough test
from China. And we'll catch up with Neil
Data of Renmak as Pal confronts a very
divided Federal Reserve. We begin this
hour with stocks rising as Alibaba
becomes the latest tech firm to ramp up
AI spending. Peter Cheer Academy
writing, "AI is only the second or third
inning, maybe even the top of the first.
The issue is whether valuations are in
the eighth inning." Pete joins us now
for more. Pete, good morning.
>> Yeah, good morning.
>> Hey, good to see you. Let's just talk
about the spending plans. What's your
reaction been to the news that's come
from Oracle in the last week, from
Nvidia in the past few days, from
Alibaba from this morning? You know,
it's all clear that spending is still
going away. You know, it's coming in. It
reminds me a little bit though, too, at
some point. Remember when you had to
have a Chinese plan and if you had a
China plan, you announce your China
plan, your stocks spike 10%. So, we're
in that sort of moment where everyone
who announces plans to spend is
rewarded. And if you announce that
you're going to spend 10 billion, your
stock goes up 20 billion. Why wouldn't
you? So, I I haven't yet seen that
change. I think at some point we're
getting closer. People are starting to
poke more holes in this. And separately
from that though I am watching what Baba
is doing separately because when I look
at everything that's going on in the
world trade tariffs etc. China has
control over the rarest critical
minerals we have control over the AI
chips and data. Um China is trying to
work their way in. It's encouraging that
they're using Nvidia chips but I think
that's going to be a real battle line to
be drawn.
>> Well let's build on that. Do you think
the US is at a disadvantage?
>> I think the US has a huge advantage
right now in terms of chips. I think
China has this big advantage in terms of
the processing and refining of rare
earth and critical minerals. We're
taking some steps whether it's
investments in ticker symbol MP there's
noise about more investments of those
sorts whether it's antinomy lithium I'm
sure there's going to be insure you know
enriched nuclear uh enriched uranium
investments those are things that we're
doing to try and defeat that but that's
a multi-year product and then at the
same time it felt like China was going
to be very easy to work with in terms of
dealing with Nvidia they seem to be
setting a line in the sand where they're
going to be we want to use Huawei more
and more so that's what I'm watching
most carefully
>> there's a lot to unpack there. You
mentioned that yes, the Chinese
government has been pushing their tech
giants to invest in domestic companies
and domestic chips and yet what you just
mentioned was Alibaba. They're using
Nvidia supplies and they actually have a
new project with robotics that they're
also uh really uh relying on Nvidia for
their supplies. So, how feasible is what
the Chinese government asking for
>> that? I don't know. And I think maybe
part of it's just a negotiating ploy
because again, everyone's now figured
out maximum leverage. So you say these
things and then you walk into a room
with President Trump and try and get
what you can. Having said that, you
know, China plays a long game, right?
And they were nowhere in AI a few years
ago. They are working their way towards
that. Whether it's a deepseek type
technology, whether it's what the Huawei
chips that are going on. So I would not
completely dismiss them, right? They are
starting this kind of steamroller
effect. They're currently losing, but I
think they plan to catch up and we've
got to be very cautious of that. I do
think this is a big win for Nvidia. I
think it's awesome for us, but you know,
this is not given. I think if we take it
for granted that it's going to keep
occurring, that's the risk.
>> Going back to your initial point, the
idea that we're in the eighth inning,
even though we're just in the first or
second inning, when it comes to the
actual production, eighth inning of
valuation, at what point does it get too
far ahead of its skis?
>> You know, I think it's when you start
seeing these announcements and the
stocks don't pop, right? When someone
announced a 20 billion spend and their
stock goes down by 30, 40 billion, then
you're like, okay, people are now tired
of this. People have kind of sensed the
valuation. You know, I think
>> I'm laughing because we had that for a
hot second and then that reversed again.
But carry on.
>> And you know the other strategy that has
worked so well is momentum, right?
Momentum tends to work. These have been
big drivers of momentum. If momentum
starts turning around and you see the
CTAs and people get forced out of
trades, but we're nowhere close to that,
right? Every dip gets bought right now.
I'm not seeing what's changing that. The
one thing that I found both encouraging
and maybe worrisome for big tech is the
Russell 2000's finally outperforming. I
think, you know, not by much. I think
it's up 3% in the past 5 days. NASDAQ
100's up 1%. But that's where I'd like
to see the shift is to a broader
expansion to more stocks performing
well.
>> Peter, I'm glad you brought up the rare
earths issue because Representative Adam
Smith was in Beijing yesterday saying,
"I don't think we resolve that." Is the
US potentially willing in these trade
negotiations to give up other issues
they care about because they are so
desperate for these rare earths.
>> I think we might have to at this point.
And again, I think we got to be really
careful. It's not the rare earths and
critical minerals themselves. It's the
processed and refined versions, right?
We could go and buy rarest critical
minerals on the open market. Where are
we going to get the process and refined
versions? China controls about 90% of
that. And so I think that is very true.
And I always go back now to CO and I
think it was the Whirlpool CEO said a
washing machine that's 99% done is not
done. And I think that's the problem
with these rarest and critical minerals.
They may only be a small component of
each product, but they are literally
critical, you know, no pun intended. And
that's the issue. So we are going to
have to give in until we build out our
own industry. What do you think it is
that the Chinese desperately want that
we're going to have to be willing to
give in?
>> You know, I think it's probably going to
be chips for now. I think they, as much
as they say they want their own
business, they're going to try and get
as many chips in the door they can while
they want it. And I think they're also
just buying time. They're playing this
while they try and solidify their
trading relationships with other
countries, right? While we're trying to
sell chips into the Middle East, I'm
sure Huawei right now is trying to sell
chips in the Middle East. So some of
this may be just a delay game by China
till they get I think time is on China's
side if you're China because they watch
the US. We're very distracted. We have
so many things going on internally that
they can just keep their machine moving
and if they can distract us that's fine
by them.
>> The White House is making a move MP
materials being the blockbuster one of
the last year or so and then you've got
the potential for an equity stake in
lithium Americas that cross in the
Bloomberg this morning. The team has
been reporting on that. How are you
thinking about the prospect of increased
intervention, an increase between public
private partnership going forward from
here?
>> Well, my starting point would be I think
I mentioned in this weekend it's you may
or may not like what's going on, but you
certainly have to trade it. So, if
you're investing in this market, whether
we like this intervention, whether we
like, you know, this ability to play
kingmaker, I'm not sure that's that's
the right direction. Having said that,
you know, in the old days, right, the
chips act, right? It just gave grants,
but the grants were tied with policy
strings. So, I don't know, maybe we're
better off investing. It's tricky, but I
do think right now you're supposed to be
scouring the universe for 5 to10 billion
companies or smaller that do things. So,
I've been involved myself directly in
enriched uranium. I think there are
other products like that. They're going
to take off because this government
needs to jump start it. And again, if
you go back to what they did with MP, it
was a relatively small investment. I
think it's kind of the tip of the
iceberg what we might be able to do out
of a sovereign wealth fund. But they
also helped provide, you know, 1.1
billion of loan guarantees, right? And
that to me, that's how we spur this
growth. So if we go down that path,
that's how we have a chance. But it's
still a 3 to 8year process.
>> This is the challenge, Pete. If you are
a child of Reagan or Thatcher, you've
got to park your feelings about this and
let it go. This administration wants to
pick winners. Are you saying that when
they pick winners, you want to go along
for the ride?
>> I think so. I think, you know, to me, in
hindsight, it wasn't surprising at all.
And I owned Intel. I think I talked
about owning Intel. And not a shock that
Trump would maybe ask Nvidia to get
involved because Trump wants Intel to do
well. like Trump likes winners, right?
That's all he's ever done. He's going to
back winners. He's in a strong position
to push these things. So whether you
like it or not, I think you have to
accept that this is the current
administration's view. These things are
going to get support. So you want to
look for those and you've seen so many
stocks take off. But I think we're still
early stages and this is all without an
official sovereign wealth fund, which I
think something is coming down the pipe
for that before the year end. This is
something that David Rubenstein
yesterday of Carlilele was talking about
that essentially that is the model that
we seem to be following with the stakes
that we're taking in a number of
companies and it seems like the United
States is moving from fiscal dominance
sort of the backbone of the US economy
to something that looks more like a
sovereign wealth fund and exactly what
that looks like still remains to be
seen. I just wonder how that changes
investing, whether that shifts some of
the macro investing landscape and shifts
it over into deep value, looking for
these specific sectors, looking for
exactly strategically what makes sense.
It's a very different framework of
investing.
>> Yeah. You know, one of the things we're
trying to do is look at AI and look for
companies that have been most impacted
by regulation and say, okay, if you've
been heavily impacted by regulation, is
that an area we can get deregulation? I
think finance companies are doing very
well, right? I think people are looking
forward to what can be done on this. And
then I would say this is global, too. I
know you know the UK prime minister
didn't completely agree with Trump but I
think this whole concept of production
for security is global and every country
has to be thinking what can you produce
at a minimum level it doesn't have to be
fully you need to make sure that you
have energy you need to make sure you
have a chip industry right England wants
to be a data center capital of the world
but they don't produce any energy and
electricity how are you going to do that
>> not exactly the traditional way of
building a sovereign wealth fund is it
>> no
>> this isn't typically how you go about
doing things
>> well not especially if through a back
door where people don't understand what
the parame parameters are exactly what's
going to go in or exactly how big it's
going to be or exactly how the revenues
are going to get distributed afterwards.
Look, there's a lot of question marks
around this. But fundamentally, from a
philosophical perspective, it seems like
maybe the limits of fiscal dominance
have been reached and people are asking
for something else as a uh as a tool of
national security and the idea of taking
stakes seems to be it whether you agree
with it or not. And I think that that's
a really interesting change in the
investing landscape. They they haven't
outwardly stated they want to do the
sovereign wealth fund, but it's obvious
everything is about national security,
MP materials, when it comes to lithium
Americas, when it comes to Intel. This
administration doesn't like grants. They
don't like loans. They want outright
equity in a company.
>> Big fun of what?
>> Yeah. And I would just add that, you
know, we're looking at these companies
that we need to jumpstart and people are
worried about if everything's just done
via executive order, does it get
overturned with some new administration?
I think these stakes change that. It
makes it harder to overturn some of the
progress that gets made. So I think that
might be kind of the secret sauce here
is by investing owning giving the
American people this. It you lets people
push forward on deregulation and assume
it's going to stay further longer than
it might otherwise.
>> Pete, you're going to stick with us.
Pitcher of Academy equity futures this
morning bouncing back by a tenth of 1%.
Let's give you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. During a meeting with Ukrainian
President Zilinsky at the UN, President
Donald Trump said NATO nations should
shoot down Russian aircraft that violate
their airspace. Separately, the
president saying on Truth Social that he
believes Ukraine can win back all of its
territory from Russia. He also said
Moscow is fighting aimlessly and even
calling the country a paper tiger.
Meanwhile, China says it will no longer
claim developing country status in the
World Trade Organization. It's a change
long demanded by the US because China is
is the world's second largest economy.
The decision is seen as a significant
gesture particularly as China looks to
negotiate a more lasting trade deal with
the US. And as you all were discussing,
OpenAI is expanding its data center push
under its plan dubbed Stargate. It plans
to invest about $400 billion in invest
$400 billion to develop five new US data
center sites in partnership with Oracle
and Soft Bank. This marks its biggest
push yet to fulfill an earlier pledge to
spend a half trillion dollars on AI
infrastructure in the country. That's
brief. John,
>> I'm just losing track of the numbers
now. Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara
in about 30 minutes time. Up next,
permission to defend.
Do you think that NATO countries should
shoot down Russian aircraft if they
enter their airspace?
>> Yes, I do.
>> Team coverage up next with Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall and Holly Croak live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Echor is doing okay. Up by 0.2%
on the S&P 500. Under surveillance this
morning, permission to defend.
>> Do you think that NATO countries should
shoot down Russian aircraft if they
enter their airspace?
>> Yes, I do.
>> Would you back up NATO allies?
>> Depends on the circumstance, but you
know, we're very strong toward NATO.
NATO stepped up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump encouraging NATO
allies to shoot down Russian aircraft
that breached their airspace. NATO
pledging quote a robust response to
Moscow's reckless actions. Our team
coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in New York.
Ali Krook in Brussels. Tyler, a very
different tone from the president
yesterday.
>> A very different tone, John. And really
a main theme that we saw emerge was
President Trump bolstering his support
for Ukraine on multiple fronts while
also urging our European allies to do
more to pressure Russia. Now, you heard
him there saying that he thinks that
NATO allies should be able to shoot down
Russian aircraft if they violate their
airspace after a slew of recent
incidents in the recent weeks, including
in Poland, Romania, and Estonia. But
then, President Trump did go on to say
that uh it's unsure what the
circumstances would be on whether or not
the US would support NATO if it engaged
Russian planes. Those uh those comments
didn't really seem to bother much of our
NATO allies. I did have the chance to
sit down with the Finnish President
Alexander Stub on the sidelines of the
UN General Assembly yesterday. He said
that he wasn't really concerned by that
comment from President Trump. He
believes that the president is firmly
behind NATO, but that ultimately he
urged caution against our allies
engaging with Russia militarily, saying
that there is a very strict protocol to
follow. I can say though that there was
this palpable sense of excitement from
the Finnish president after President
Trump posted on Truth Social what really
felt like a stunning shift, a stunning
development, saying that he now believes
that Ukraine is poised to win back all
territory concessions. This came after
he met with the Ukrainian President
Zalinsky on the sidelines of the UN
General Assembly. But really, John,
after months of this administration
repeatedly saying that Ukraine would
have to give up territory in order to
end the war,
>> Ali Croo, it feels like we're entering a
new phase. And the first country I
thought of was Poland. How did Poland
respond to those comments?
>> Yeah. So, there are a couple of
different sort of strains to follow.
When you think about what Trump was
saying in terms of encouraging European
countries to sort of shoot down Russian
jets if they enter the airspace are kind
of really different divided ways in
which Europe have interpreted that. As
we've, you know, been reporting over the
last couple of days, Poland has taken a
very hard line. They said, "Listen, if
you're in our airspace, we will shoot
you down. No question about it." I
caught up with the Estonian prime
minister who was really the source of
this latest development where you had
those Russian jets, three combat armed
MIG31s that were in Estonian airspace
right by the capital for 100 km. He took
a much more measured approach. He said
basically we have protocols in NATO. We
were going to go engage with those, but
we're not going to say that there's a
red line here or a red line there. And
then we also heard from the Germans, the
German defense ministry who said that
basically slapdash comments about taking
planes out of the sky and all these
sorts of things are actually really not
that helpful. We need to be much more
measured in our approach and we need to
basically not play Russia's game.
Russia, they say, are just trying to
instigate the Europeans to shoot
something down potentially and then
basically have the Russians say that
they are the victims of all this. But
again, I think that for me and for the
sort of reaction from the Europeans,
though very po very very positive to
what Trump has said over the last 24
hours, there is a high dose of
skepticism because as we know, 7 months
ago, almost to the day, Jonathan, you
had the two presidents sitting in these
exact same configuration in a very
different kind of meeting. It shows you
how far we've gone in that relationship
between Zalinsky and Trump, but it also
tells you how rapidly things can change.
So, I think very welcome here in Europe,
that said, with a little bit of dose of
skepticism as well. Ollie, I appreciate
the update alongside Tyler. Tyler, great
work yesterday. Thank you. With us
around a table, Peter chair of Academy
Securities for a fair few questions on
this topic. Pete, let's continue this.
Do you think Russia's going to test this
new red line?
>> Yeah, I think that these have not been
accidents. We recorded a podcast
yesterday at Academy Securities. We
talked about this. They are pushing it
right and we have to figure out what's
an appropriate response. How do we push
back? What do we do about this? And it
will be a NATO state. It won't be the US
attacking, but it's the US command
command and control systems. You know,
we're a integral part of any sort of
defense and any action that takes place.
>> Well, what's the difference? Trump said
yesterday, we will continue to supply
weapons to NATO for NATO to do what they
want with them. The United States is
NATO.
>> You know, as an organization, that is
true, but each country does have some
degree of, you know, sovereign. It's,
you know, reminds me a little bit. It's,
you know, we all put up with Iran having
these proxies, right? And we, oh, Hamas
isn't really Iran. Well, it is. So, I
think you're going to get into a little
bit of these games where maybe Poland
will behave differently than in Estonia
because Poland feels more threatened.
Maybe Poland feels more, you know, you
know, up to speed on the ability to do
something. Maybe Estonia doesn't. Um,
but I think there is going to be a
change where everyone's got to sit down
and say, "Okay, this is a new thing for
Russia. How do we respond? What do we
do?" Because the one thing you don't
want to have is something that becomes,
"Oh, they're regularly incurring.
They're regularly incurring. Oops, they
went really allin this time and killed
someone." So, I I think they are going
to be red lines and this is going to be
aggressive and it should be pushed back
or else Putin's going to keep doing it.
Is Putin testing the resolve of NATO or
testing the response of the United
States?
>> Probably a little bit of both. And I
think he's his hope though along the
whole time has been to somehow fracture
NATO. And maybe this is how he does it.
It's like, okay, which countries will
support this? Maybe a Turkey, for
example, won't be comfortable doing
this. Maybe a Hungary won't be
comfortable doing this. Maybe Finland
really wants to do this. But could you
create some sort of divide? I think
again he will fail. I think he has
misread how you know his invasion of
Ukraine coalesed NATO. And I think this
will do that once again.
>> That said, we still haven't seen the
sanctions that have been threatened.
Yes, there are uh some stiff sanctions
placed on Russia, but not the secondary
sanctions that would curtail a lot of
the revenue still coming into the
country via oil sales.
>> You know, my starting point is we just
need to enforce the sanctions that are
already in place. Right. To me, there's
two things. We've got a set of sanctions
in place. Some are being defied by
effectively, you know, India, China, and
there's very little we can do about
that. So, we can address that with
secondary. But first, if Europe's going
to continue to buy, you know, Russian
oil, whether directly or via Kazakhstan
or some other third party, they're not
helping themselves. So, I think step one
is enforce the sanctions that we already
have in place. Let's see what that does.
And then maybe you can go to secondary
sanctions. How do you tell India, oh,
we're going to put secondary sanctions
on you. Meanwhile, half of Europe's
buying energy on, you know, it's just
doesn't make sense.
>> It also uh was sort of mindboggling
yesterday. President Trump was talking
about how one way to counter Russia is
to lower oil prices to reduce the
revenues and you saw oil prices reduce
uh go lower on the heels of that. How
feasible is that going forward given how
low prices are given the fact that we
could be facing a global economic
reaceleration?
>> My working assumption this year has been
it's going to be very difficult for oil
to get much above 70. I think Trump has
a handshake agreement with the Saudis
that if oil goes higher they can come
and push it on the market. That's what
they get in turn in return. They get to
buy Nvidia chips. They get to jump start
their data center. So, I think there's
all these, you know, transactions going
on behind the scenes. So, I'm not too
worried about oil prices going higher.
>> Why are German stocks up almost 20% this
year? Why European banks up almost 60%
this year? The conversation we have
about Europe is pretty dreadful still.
And yet, here we are talking about major
gains.
>> You know, I think a lot of this still
comes down to okay, will they actually
spend to do the defense spending, which
would be a new initiative. I think that
helps. Will you start seeing deals in
>> Can I just ask you help who? The ECB is
forecasting 1% growth for next year.
Who's it helping?
>> That I don't know. I I I think though to
me one of the big wild cards that we're
looking at right now is and I think
Trump mentioned this two weeks ago. No
one's paid attention to it. He kind of
gave the nod to Europe to go after
Russia's frozen FX reserves. And about
300 billion of that is in euros sits in
the European system. If Europe starts
going after that as part of this maximum
pressure on Putin, right? One, it allows
them to buy the US weapons. It keeps
yields down because they don't have to
actually issue debt when they get this.
And I think that's the sort of thing
that you know if you're taking a
multi-pronged approach, you threaten
Prudin with some war, which is one
thing, then you really start taking away
his money. That's another thing. I think
that's the direction you go and that
leads to some growth. And I do think all
the things I've been talking about this
whole, you know, production for
security, people are starting to realize
Europe's going to have to do some of
that themselves, right? You can't rely
just on wind, just on solar. You need to
go through this. So I think those are
the opportunities and banks are going to
play a big role in that as there's going
to be hopefully M&A and transactions
going
>> well Pete they're certainly having a big
year that's for sure a monster year for
25 Peter of Academy Securities a monster
rally for European banks and European
equities
>> there's been a lot of promise despite
some of the uh slack expectations for
growth and a lot of this comes on what
Pete's talking about the idea of
investment the idea of the investment
fund fund from Germany but when you
actually look at the data there have
been more positive surprises to the
economic data coming out of Europe
negative ones. I don't know if that just
tells you that the expectations are very
low or that there is something going on
that gives people a little bit more
optimism.
>> I'm not sure that massive defense
spending was the main pillar of the
draggy plan. I might be wrong, but I'm
not sure it was.
>> You're not wrong, and you know that
you're not wrong. There is the issue is
how do you get an entire region full of
different countries to agree on
deregulation and changing some of the
culture around work and and job
creation?
>> Energy prices are too high. Germany, the
UK, they're being consumed by Chinese
auto makers. Seeing that in the UK, in
various places across Europe, Europe is
not in a good place. I know we're all
excited about European bank stocks, but
not in a good place. From New York City,
this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
This headline just crossing just moments
ago. It comes from the EU to propose a
tariff increase on oil imports from
Russia. Something's building, Kit. The
president's been pushing for some
action. The Europeans seem to be on
board. We're heading in this direction.
>> Well, the president pushed for it once
again, even yesterday at the UN and
Truth Social Post, saying, "I'm willing
to do more when it comes to sanctions,
but everyone needs to be alongside me,
all our allies." And he's not just
talking about India anymore. He's
talking about the European Union.
They've been talking about this for a
number of weeks and months, and it looks
like finally they are starting to put
this together. they will have this
increase because remember they are still
one of the top five buyers of Russian
fossil fuels
>> and this war is happening on their soil.
>> Check out the price move. We're up by
about 0.9% on Brent so far this morning.
Up by almost 1% on WTI 64 and $68
respectively. That's the situation in
the commodity market. Let's turn to
equities. Equity futures shaping up as
follows on the S&P on the NASDAQ on the
Russell and the S&P pulling back from
alltime highs in yesterday's session.
firmer this morning by a tenth of 1% on
the NASDAQ up by 0.2 in the bond market.
2-year bond yields a little bit lower
yesterday across the curve following
four consecutive days of higher bond
yields. We're back down to about 356 on
twos on 10 just about unchanged on the
session at 410. No real sign of what
chairman Pal wants to do here at least
yesterday. But I have to say over the
last week he has picked a side and the
side he has picked is the labor market
and it's not inflation and you should
follow what they do not what they say.
They're cutting interest rates and
they're going to continue cutting
interest rates.
>> Yeah, he gave more noise around that
yesterday with respect to potentially
the immigration impact on on on the
labor market and it could be a false
signal. At the same time, it seems like
something has shifted for him. That
comes along with Mickey Bowman saying we
need to aggressively lean into saving
the labor market and this is an
important moment to do that. That I
think got a lot of people's attention.
>> We risk being behind the curve.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. Governor Bowman is no longer
hawkish. Let's put it that way. I think
that she's in the running is what I
think.
>> And now one of the biggest dumps on the
committee by Governor Byron. Three hours
away from the cash open. Let's get you
some single names. Some morning movers.
Here's Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Alibaba shares flying this
morning. The ADR is trading 9 and a3%
higher. Alibaba CEO saying that they are
going to not just be incrementally
increasing their AI spend, but it is a
whole shift. Before they had said
something like $50 billion over the next
three years, he said it will be more.
also touting their full stack service.
Everything from the data centers, the
infrastructure, the software behind it.
So that capex continues to be a good
story for investors. Meanwhile, Micron
also an AI boost for them. Expectations
were so high for this company to
perform. Share prices have nearly
doubled year to date and they gave a
forecast for this current quarter that
exceeded expectations. So even though
the move is only 6% that is good for
Micron considering just how big of a
runup it had been into this earning
season. Now elsewhere lithium Americas
it's a Vancouverbased company with one
of their large mine operations in
Nevada. People familiar telling
Bloomberg that the uh Trump
administration is looking at converting
a $2.3 billion loan from the Department
of Energy into a 10% equity stake in the
company. Again, it is that Nevada mine
which is set to become one of the
biggest lithium producers in America.
So, the administration looking at coming
in there. GM had owned a stake in that
mine with lithium Americas. And before
this, they'd already been looking at
renegotiating the terms of that loan,
saying they couldn't meet the
conditions. So, that possible equity
stake has shares up 54%. John,
>> what a move for that stock right there.
Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. On a
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump saying NATO nations should shoot
down Russian aircraft that violate their
airspace. Trump adding on Truth Social,
he believes Ukraine can reclaim all of
its territory, calling Russia a paper
tiger. Elsewhere, OpenAI partnering with
Oracle and SoftBank on a massive $400
billion investment to build five new
data centers. The facilities located
across Texas, New Mexico, Ohio, a part
of OpenAI Stargate infrastructure
project. And finally, Alibaba shares are
surging to a near four-year high after
the company said it would boost its AI
spending beyond its original $50 billion
plus target. The company's CEO
predicting global AI investment will
hit, wait for this number, $4 trillion
in the next 5 years.
>> It just sort of underscores how people
are scared of not investing enough. Not
that they're investing in a way that's
going to throw away uh money, good money
after bad. I will just say it's
interesting that Alibaba is working with
Nvidia. So despite some of the uh
feelings that maybe the Chinese
government is going to push Chinese
technology companies away from US chip
providers isn't exactly transpiring. But
what this speaks to is this global wave
of investment that is continuing despite
some of the people here in New York City
ringing their hands and saying it's a
bubble. It's a bubble and they're coming
out and they're saying look this is the
future. You can get on board or you can
leave for China. My big question after
this story using those Nvidia chips is
what's the goal? Is it strategically you
want to win in the AI space? You're
going to use all technology at your
disposal or do you really want to push
for chip sovereignty and at the end of
the day make sure your national
champions are the ones that are pushing
into your own companies. And I think
this is an interesting moment right now
and I wonder if it sticks. Are we just
here for this moment right now or China
is going to force these companies to
move inward?
>> Important takeaway. We often say this on
the program. You can learn something
from the news, the declaration, the data
point, and you can learn something from
how the market responds to it. I think
it's far more interesting that the
market is responding still positively to
these additional spending plans, which
is something Peter Cheer reflected on
about 20 minutes ago.
>> Yeah, naysayers in New York aren't
really doing anything for the share
price because ultimately, if you can
promise $10 billion of spending and you
get $20 billion uh market valuation pop
in your shares, well, you're doing
something right. And he said that the
real key that this had moved too far is
if you don't get that kind of reaction
in markets. And so far, we're nowhere
near that.
>> Investors like it, so the promises keep
coming. Investors like it, the promises
keep coming, and we'll see how long they
can keep this going. Let's stick with
China. Global demand for Chinese exports
is surging as the world's second largest
economy is on track for a record 1.2
trillion trade surplus despite the
tariffs that came from the US earlier
this year. Harold Hendrickx, the
European autos analyst, the city, joins
us now on what all of this could mean
for the auto sector across the
continent. Harold, good to see you, sir.
>> Good morning. Good morning.
>> Thanks for being here. Let's just talk
about the EV strategy from the
Europeans. So, we had the news out of
Porsche yesterday that they're tapping a
brace, so to speak. Forgive the pun.
You've got three options really. Double
down, muddle through, back away. What
are the automakers picking? What are
they choosing in Europe? In reality,
they don't really have a choice, right?
Um you've got three completely different
EV strategies across the world, right?
The major markets, Europe, um US, and
China. You know, China is surging ahead
both technology wise, subsidy wise, and
overall penetration of NEVs, right?
Europe is muddling through um with
frankly um very difficult regulations
that um are a significant competitive
disadvantage for the European car
companies which are now potentially
being renegotiated. Right? We we started
negotiations on the 12th of September.
So we'll see what comes out of that. And
then the US as ever going completely the
other way. So if you're a car company,
you have virtually no EV penetration in
the US. 53 54% NV penetration in China
and maybe 161 17 in Europe. You have to
basically cater to all people. So they
have no choice. So what Porsche was
doing was not so much cutting the EV
model plan as basically prolonging the
IC model plan, right? The the the
initial plans were just too aggressive
and they're just not achievable. The
consumer demand just isn't there.
>> I do remember when people were talking
about Detroit here in the United States
and saying ultimately it's uninvestable
based on some of the regulatory
concerns, the competitive landscape. And
I wonder based on some of the Chinese
EVs that are coming into Europe right
now, also with some of the regulatory
overhang whether the European auto
sector is investable right now.
>> Yeah, thank you. I'm asking
I I often have this debate with
investors and I'm like what other
sectors do you do? Um
I only have the one sector. Um look,
it's a good debate. Firstly, you know,
and again it goes to the the chip
discussion you were having is to, you
know, the the AI stuff growth, right?
You know, growth is becoming harder and
harder and harder and investors are
looking for growth wherever they can
they can find it, you know, and and so
you're bifurcating the market also,
right? The market's become very very
narrow and unfortunately companies like
autos and and a lot of the older
industries are not getting the capital
that they need. They have a much higher
cost of capital and so that's you know
um speeding up the decline. Um the
answer to the question is look there are
names you know Ferrari is of great
quality name a lot of the tire companies
have much much better fundamentals you
know there are some companies I think
Porsche with the brand name that they
have potentially could you know get
better fundamentals but globally you
know the Chinese have done what they've
done in so many industries right the the
EV industry became a strategic growth
asset for them they have essentially
built almost twice the capacity that
they need for electric vehicles in China
itself the IC market the combustion
engine car market in China have, but you
still have the capacity from what we had
before. So, China just has this infinite
capacity which allows them to make super
super cheap cars to sell in other parts
of the world.
>> And the place that's seeing a lot of
them is the European automakers because
ultimately that's where a lot of these
Chinese autos are going. And I just
wonder how much the European auto sector
has to shrink to accommodate what really
is coming onto its shores.
>> Yeah. So, look, I mean, you have the
Chinese strategy, right? And then and
then you have Trump, right? And and
unfortunately Europe is the weak spot,
right? And so as soon as Trump put the
tariffs on the US, where do you go? You
go to Europe, right? And so we've seen
that immediately. So it's not just the
Chinese, but it's Hyundai, it's Toyota,
everybody who needs to sell cars
globally has gone to Europe because
they're short of their budgets in the
US, right? And so you're seeing a huge
extra supply. You're seeing really good
quality EVs coming into Europe from
China. Um and the reality is the
European industry is getting squeezed.
Just a quote that I make with investors
just to highlight the seriousness of
this. So Volkswagen has just embarked on
the biggest restructuring they've done
in 87 years. They've cut 40 40% of their
German Volkswagen brand capacity. So you
build a business for 100 years and in a
single decision you cut 40% of that
business in Germany. Audi their second
bigger brand right 25%.
You know these are huge huge huge huge
numbers and and it's not just China
postco the market didn't come back the
regulatory situation in Europe is
terrible such that it is too expensive
to make smaller cars in Europe right so
the European OEMs have pulled out but it
means that the European car market is
now one and a half 2 million units
smaller than it was pre-COVID so you
have a smaller market more competition
better quality competition and
potentially regulations that are totally
unreachable for 203035
>> it's a very hard situation
>> is this environment going enforce the
commission to do an about phase.
>> I think it is inevitable. So, I'm I'm a
good Dutchman and so people always want
me to be incredibly bullish about
Europe. I I tend to have been always the
other way around. Um, currently I'm a
little bit more bullish about Europe
today simply because the situation is so
bad that that you know people are losing
elections, right? You know, unemployment
is a significant problem. You've seen
some of the reactions to to some of the
politics in Europe recently. You know,
the European automotive industry in some
countries is still representing 11, 12,
13% of total employment. They have no
choice. They can't kill it, right? And
that's why I'm going around the world
highlighting the 40% cuts, the 25% cuts.
Wake up. Wake up. Right? You You can't
restart an industry once you've closed
it down, right? So, I think they have to
>> Does Europe then need to choose what
Mexico is doing and put up the walls
alongside the United States to Beijing?
>> Look, you know, I I did an interesting
debate regarding exactly that recently.
Again, Europe has no choice, right? And
this isn't about, you know, particularly
subsidies or cheating or anything like
that. It's about the fact that China
just has a much much better industrial
policy with regard to all of these
things. They've made better decisions 5
10 years ago. They've created the
conditions to have this industry and and
we didn't, right? And lithium, we were
going to talk about the lithium, you
know, we don't even have the supply. We
haven't secured our own supplies, right?
75% of global lithium supply refining is
in China, right? We don't even have it.
So if you don't have lithium, you can't
make batteries. If you haven't made
batteries, you can't make EVs. Yeah. So
this is about industrial policy and
basically to protect the European
industry. I think you're right.
>> Do you foresee a future where China says
we are no longer even going to sell
batteries. It's buy the car or nothing
because they have complete control on
the supply chain.
>> Yeah, really interesting question. Um
it's actually their single most powerful
weapon, you know, against the global car
industry, right? The global car industry
has become, at least on the EV side,
very dependent on China. Um and at least
so far the Chinese have not restricted
access to those supply chains but yes
that is potentially part of it and in
fact we've seen this with the rare
earths as well right and this is why to
be honest thinking about the article
that you highlighted to me you know
regarding lithium to be honest the
Americans are reacting and they finally
understood that they need to secure
their own supply and whether you do that
with government investment or any other
way frankly I don't care you know you
need to supply and and to secure that
supply for yourselves and so I read this
stuff and I look at the Americans and at
least they're doing
Right. I want this to be coming from the
EU and of course it's never going to but
it that that you know we need to think
about our own futures, don't we?
>> I have to say what a pleasure it's been
just to sit here and listen to you for
the last 10 minutes. Thank you for being
here.
>> No problem. Thank you.
>> The fact the Europeans are killing what
you say they shouldn't be killing is
just absolutely shocking. It goes back
to the conversation we had 15 minutes
ago, which is about European banks and
European stocks.
>> Put the stock market to one side. Just
forget all of that. Look at the state of
the economy. The ECB is forecasting 1%
growth for the Euro zone next year, even
with all this fantastic stimulus that
everyone's excited about coming out of
Germany and they are killing one of
their own industries and there's no sign
they're going to stop anytime soon.
>> Yeah, what Harold just said there that
this is an industry that accounts for
more than 10% of the jobs in the region
and it is squeezed on both sides and
there is no end in sight and it is
because of regulation. It is because of
some other uh lack of investment
earlier. It just raises a question, what
is the plan going forward to uh really
protect those jobs given the fact that
right now they're under direct assault.
>> Unfortunately, conditioned by
experience, don't underestimate the
European's ability to stick with a bad
idea for a long, long time.
>> Well,
>> because most people would sit here and
say this sounds terrible. Surely things
will change. We've been talking about
this for years, not months, years.
>> Not to be overly philosophical, but you
could see this in some of the political
fractures right now. And you could see
this with a question of are we reaching
a boiling point in the politics around
the world? And I think that that really
has been the ultimate question. Yes,
maybe that people don't want to make bad
decisions, but right now there is
serious unrest and I think that that is
coming back uh to the table.
>> Howard, appreciate this. Let's do it
again soon. Next time you're in New
York.
>> Yeah, thank you very much.
>> Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
Howard Hendricks there of City. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara for more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The typhoon that has lashed
Hong Kong in recent days is moving up
China's southern coast where it's
expected to hit the area with torrential
rain. The storm has led to thousands of
flights being cancelled along with
school classes and train services
suspended. The typhoon equal in strength
to a category 2 hurricane has killed at
least 14 people in Taiwan. Meanwhile,
here, Democrat Adelita Grihalva has won
a special election in Arizona, further
shrinking the Republican majority in the
US House, now leaving them with the 219
to 214 majority. The victory is
significant as it gives Democrats the
final signature needed on a petition to
force a vote on a measure that would
release unreleased government files on
Jeffrey on the late Jeffrey Epstein.
And Jimmy Kimmel returned to air last
night and addressed controversy over his
remarks about Charlie Kirk's
assassination.
>> The truth is, I don't think what I have
to say is going to make much of a
difference, but I do want to make
something clear because it's important
to me as a human, and that is, you
understand that it was never my
intention to make light of the murder of
a young man.
It was the first time the TV host spoke
publicly since ABC pulled his program
off air for saying conservatives were
trying to score political points from
Kirk's murder. Just minutes before his
show aired, President Trump floated the
prospect of suing ABC over Kimell's
return. That's Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. Up next, no risk-free path.
Near-term risks to to inflation are
tilted to the upside and risks to
employment are tilted to the downside. A
challenging situation. Two-sided risks
mean that there is no risk-free path.
>> A conversation up next with Neil Data of
Renmack live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities
are bouncing back by 0.1% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.3.
That's the market pricing so far this
morning. Under surveillance this
morning, there is no risk-free path. The
unemployment rate is low but has edged
up. At the same time, inflation has
risen recently and remains somewhat
elevated. Near-term risks to to
inflation are tilted to the upside and
risks to employment are tilted to the
downside. A challenging situation.
Two-sided risks mean that there is no
risk-free path. So, here's the latest
this morning. Fed chair J Pal
reiterating the challenging path ahead
as policy makers weigh further easing.
Neil Data of Renmark is writing the
following. Hard data for August has been
mixed at best. Meanwhile, survey data
for September has been soft. The
evidence that conditions are sustainably
turning a corner remains thin. Neil
joins us now for more. Neil, welcome to
the program, buddy. It's good to hear
from you as always. You keep pointing to
what's happening with housing. And I
want you to explain to us all why that's
such a key indicator for you and why it
should be for the Fed, too.
>> Well, it just seems to me that um you
know, a lot of the uh strength in the
economy is being uh driven, you know, by
things like consumer spending. um you
know that's what people have been
pointing to a lot of enthusiasm for
retail sales but it's important to
remember that consumer spending has
never actually turned down in front of
an economic slump. I mean there are some
economic recessions as an example where
consumption is actually expanding. Um so
that sector is not really the one that
gives you the tell. Now residential
investment by contrast does tend to turn
in front of economic slowdowns and it's
been contracting albeit very modestly
over the last number of quarters. Um and
as I mentioned, you know, the um this
isn't the first time we've seen
residential uh investment slowdown uh
since co um obviously it happened in
2022 when the Fed was rapidly hiking
interest rates. I mean they basically
broke housing without even uh hiking. Um
they kind of use their words to send
rates higher. It's different now because
builders no longer have a backlog of
housing of homes to work through. So
units under construction were very
elevated in uh 2022 2023. That's no
longer the case and the pipeline of
future construction keeps dwindling
which is why construction employment is
more at risk over the next several
quarters. So uh that introduces
additional downside to the labor market
which is um you know obviously something
that matters a lot for the Fed. So, you
know, right now you have um declines in
construction employment. It's likely
that construction employment continues
to decline because things like housing
permits are weak. Things like um you
know, new home sales that haven't been
started are very low. Uh and home prices
continue to decline. So, I think
builders have kind of reached their
pivot point on margins. And you know,
that's something that hasn't been
getting a lot of attention quite
frankly. And I do think it's very
important for for the broader US
economy.
>> Neil, I wonder just to sort of center
the conversation whether you agree with
the Steven Myron view of things where
maybe neutral is more around 2 and a.5%
rather than the 3 to 4% that the rest of
the committee believes and that the Fed
should really uh cut steeply. Is that
kind of the way you look at things right
now?
No, I mean I think it's look if if
neutral interest rates uh in real terms
were basically zero, which is, you know,
essentially where uh Myron, Governor
Myin um said they were, then the economy
and the financial markets would have
already collapsed. That doesn't mean
that policy is not restrictive. So, I do
think directionally um he's sort of
right. I guess the what I'm trying to
get at, Neil, is what you're arguing is
something that I think a lot of people
would get would would get around, would
believe in, and I'm just wondering how
different the path, the corrective path
is that you're laying out versus what
the committee is poised to do uh on the
Fed.
>> Well, I mean, the committee only has one
rate cut in between now and the end of
next year. I'm not sure that's going to
cut it. I mean, look at what's happening
with mortgage rates. I mean, mortgage
rates are um you know, uh still elevated
and you know, while the Fed doesn't um
control mortgage rates directly, I mean,
obviously longerterm interest rates at
some level are expectations of future
short rates. And so, if all you're
really going to get out of the Fed is
two more rate hikes and then maybe I
mean, you know, the likelihood is
potential. I mean, there's there's a
risk that they only go in October and
nothing nothing beyond that. um they
haven't really penciled in much for
2026. So um you know I think the fact
that the Fed path isn't really um
anything beyond a sort of meeting by
meeting approach um that's probably
another sort of reason why uh why
mortgage rates are sort of elevated are
still elevated here.
>> Neil, even though Jay Powell is talking
about risk to both sides, Jonathan made
a great point. Hasn't he already showed
his bias? Hasn't he already decided he
actually only cares for the labor market
right now? That's his concern.
>> Well, I See, I don't I mean I Yes. I
mean, it depends what your time horizon
is. I mean, I think he cares about the
labor market for the next few months. If
inflation starts um accelerating, I
mean, you can't rule out that they skip
December. I mean, why would anyone do
that? The committee is so evenly split.
People are are open are allowed to
change their minds. Um you know, you
still have I mean, you had a bunch of
hawks talking this week, too, like
Bostic and the St. Louis Fed president.
Um so they're a little bit more
circumspect about future rate cuts and
you know Powell's job is to kind of
forge some kind of consensus within that
committee and you know if you get let I
mean as I say if you get an upside
surprise on on poor inflation between
now and the end of end of the year um I
wouldn't necessarily say that um you
know riskmanagement approach as he's
outlined it would mean uh you know some
it could mean skipping the meeting alto
together. Uh so um you know I wouldn't
necessarily say that the path is locked
in.
>> Neil, good to hear from you. We'll catch
up again soon. Let's get you in the
studio. Neil Da there of Renmak Chad
House said this yesterday in the speech.
In addition to what he said back in
Jackson Hole, one time increase in a
price level will likely be spread out
over several quarters and show up as
somewhat higher inflation during that
period. That's the Fed chair setting you
up for hotter rates. Not in months to
come, over the next several quarters. So
it's pretty clear. I don't know if he
gets spooked by it, but it's pretty
clear what his argument is right now
going into these Fed meetings.
>> Yeah, he's going to look through it
because he also said we do see
meaningful weakness in the labor market.
So, how much does that really matter for
Fed policy?
>> So far, he's picked aside. He can change
his mind, but at the moment, he has
certainly picked aside. Coming up next
on the program, we'll catch up with
Barbara Reinhardt of Voyer Investment
Management, Ed Mills of Raymond James,
the Charles Schwab CEO, Rick Worster,
and Russell Brownback.
[Music]
Six months ago, it was all panic about
who's the next Fed chair. That seems to
have slowed down. A super dovish chair
would have some influence on the path of
policy, but not just going to come in
and get their way.
>> The Fed is cutting on risk management
grounds into what may be the early
stages of a cyclical reaceleration.
>> In our view, the Fed rate cuts are one
factor of many. If we see the labor
market continue to deteriorate, that's
something that will ultimately impact
consumer spending.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures positive and bouncing back.
We're high up by 0.1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, up by 0.3. In the bond market,
four days of high yields met with a
single session of lower yields in
yesterday's session. This morning, just
about unchanged, the 2-year 356, the
10-year 411. For the week ahead, it's
shaping up as follows. Lots more Fed
speak. And it concludes with some
important data on Friday going into the
weekend with a look at PCE.
>> Yeah, the idea of personal income,
personal spending, and then this key
metric of inflation that the Fed does
look at. Honestly, how much is the
market caring about this given the fact
that the Fed has said we probably are
going to get hotter than expected
inflation reads? And we probably are
going to look through it. At what point
is the headline number going to be
important? At what point are we going to
be talking about appliances,
bars, and restaurants? I mean,
seriously, how much are we going to go
line by line? Is it going to matter if
one type of industry is seeing price
increases more than another?
>> It was my biggest takeaway from the PAL
speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. You
were there. It's my biggest takea away
from him yesterday. Setting himself up
to look through hotter inflation prints
that he believes might be spread out
over the next several quarters.
>> Right. And he said that again yesterday,
reiterating it, a one-time increase does
not mean all at once. He also went on to
say when talking about inflation,
especially since you have this split,
Federal Reserve officials talking about
those that are really concerned about
the labor market and those that are
concerned about a reaceleration of
inflation. He says, "We can't leave that
part of the goal unguarded. It almost
feels like well you already are because
you've already decided last month this
month that you actually have a bias and
concern about a weakening labor market.
>> That's the Federal Reserve. Let's turn
to some single names. Alibaba in the
pre-market this morning by close to 10%
announcing increased plans for AI
spending and this stock market just
keeps rewarding those headlines. There
is this feeling that this is a
transformative moment that AI will be
the new future and could be more
transformative than even the railroad or
the internet or some of these other
areas. So people are saying it is more
of a liability to not be ahead of the
game and that rhetoric is working in
markets. What's the stopping point for
that? I'm not sure. I keep going back to
what Peter Shear said. When the market
doesn't respond with a bounce, that's
when you know something is a foot. We
did see that for a brief second with
Meta uh going back to their expansion
followed by their restraint and
discipline. I just wonder if there's
something that's actually going to gain
traction.
>> So far, at least over the past few
announcements, the market responding
very positively. Oracle, Nvidia, and
this this morning.
>> Sam Alman of OpenAI had this to say
yesterday. I thought it was really
interesting. People will get burned on
overinvesting and people also get burned
on underinvesting and not having enough
capacity. Smart people will get over
excited and people will lose a lot of
money. People will make a lot of money.
But I am confident that long-term the
value of this technology is going to be
gigantic to society and that I think is
what the market is coalesing around.
>> Alphabet based on their comments in the
last 12 months committed to
overinvesting. That's the latest on
tech. I want to squeeze this single name
in two. Lithium Americas maybe a name
you're not too familiar with. I can tell
you this morning it's higher by 68%
in the pre-market. And reports suggest
this White House is getting closer to
taking a stake. and also lithium
Americas this morning talking about how
they continue to work with the
department of energy where they
originally had this loan approved during
the Biden administration and GM on these
proposals. It sounds like the US
government though they don't like loans
they don't like grants. We've seen that
before with already them taking stakes
like they did with Intel that 10% stake.
They are going directly into these
companies that they think there's a
national security concern and you can
see that with the direction of travel
lithium America's being the latest.
>> This stock is flying. We'll spend some
time on this a little bit later this
hour. Coming up over the next 60
minutes, we'll catch up with Barbara
Reinhardt of Voya Investment Management
with Wall Street tapping the brakes. Ed
Mills of Raymond James as President
Trump launches a blistering attack on
the UN and the Charles Swap CEO Rick
Worester as Pal suggests stocks are
highly valued. We begin this hour as the
record stock rally hits some skepticism
following some big AI investment plans.
Barbara Reinhardt of Voya Investment
Management remains optimistic, writing,
"We remain overweight equities have been
all year. We remain overweight the US."
Barbara joins us now for more. Barbara,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with that overweight. Let's
start with why. What underpins that for
you?
>> Well, I think it's all been about
earnings, right? So, everything that you
think about in terms of the equity
market, yes, it's had a a massive bounce
off of the bottom, but more than 55% of
it has been driven by earnings, only 45%
has been driven by multiples. As long as
companies are delivering on their
earnings, the equity market seems to be,
you know, poised to continue to go
higher. The earning story for a handful
of tech names has been absolutely
phenomenal. The capex intention spending
plans have been phenomenal as well. And
as Lisa was talking about just moments
ago, this market keeps rewarding those
spending plans. Are we anywhere near the
limit of investor tolerance?
>> Well, I think you have to put it in
context. A lot of people are starting to
think about is this like the n late
1990s bubble where we had spent a lot of
money on overinvestment in fiber and you
know fiber was being lit and there was
dark fiber still to go. But you have to
remember many of the tech companies that
were just propelling the market forward
on the NASDAQ in the late 1990s didn't
have the earnings power, didn't have the
free cash flow power that the companies
today have. The AI investment, I think,
is just starting to scratch the surface.
We see it on our teams that we are using
AI to help us with repetitive tasks, to
help us with quarterly commentaries, to
help us with earnings calls. So we're
seeing it lift our business in terms of
efficiency and in terms of
productivities per workers. It may take
a while for that to flow through the
economic data. We may see the
productivity boom 5 years from now on AI
but we do believe it is indeed coming.
Do you believe it enough to uh sort of
uh wager on the broadening out trend,
the idea that the tech advancements are
not going to be isolated to a handful of
large companies, but that there is going
to be this ground swell of support for
the equal weight?
>> Lisa, that's a great point and I think
you have to look outside of the US to
talk about that. So this entire year,
the emerging markets had been lagging
behind the US and even coming off of the
April bottom, a lot of global markets
had come off the bottom, but the US was
leading the way. Just in the past five
to six weeks, you've seen this big trend
that the emerging markets are starting
to outperform the US. But if you look
under the hood, it's really emerging
market technology stocks are outpacing
US technology stocks. It doesn't mean
that they're not all going up together,
but emerging markets seem to be taking
the lead. I think in order to believe in
a broadening out of the market, you need
to see the Fed continuing to ease. You
need to get past this inflation spurt,
but you also need to get past this
lowfiring, low hiring phase that the US
is in. There is a little bit of
nervousness under underneath the surface
in terms of how long this can continue
to go. We think that once you get to the
beginning of next year, you got the
fiscal stimulus boost from the big
beautiful bill. You'll have the
depreciation right down uh for
companies. So, you're going to have a
you know much bigger fiscal stimulus
push once you start to get to the first
quarter of 2026. This might be a
difficult question to answer and this
was something I was thinking about
yesterday. Is it feasible to see a
broadening out in terms of which stocks
are doing better and inflation coming
down? And I asked this because yesterday
in the PMI data, it showed that actually
companies were having a harder time
passing along the cost to their
consumers. That means shrinking margins.
That means less profitability. That
means something for investors that's not
very positive. So are these stories kind
of in conflict? Lisa, it's a great
question, but I think you have to take a
look not only at margins, but the level
of margins. Margins are extremely high
in the US
and yes, companies have not been passing
on all the price increases from tariffs,
but I would say there's always room for
negotiation for those to continue to go
lower and that would be very
wellreceived by the markets. So, I think
you have to take these things in terms
of context in terms of margins come down
from 27% down to 25%.
Is it really that big of a deal? But
it's a great question. Barbara, you said
you see productivity with AI actually
being an enhancement. At the same time,
you say we're in this low hiring, low
firing regime when it comes to labor
market. Do you see companies not hiring
because specifically AI? No, I think
it's more companies are not hiring
because of a lot of uncertainty, right?
You've had a lot of potential shocks to
the economy over the course of this
year. You had the tariff induced
downturn in April which was really
significant and very severe. I mean, you
had very deeply oversold conditions
within financial markets. There were a
lot of crawls that the world was coming
to an end. You know, big rally off of
the bottom. But I think that this low
hiring, low firing is just a matter of
companies saying, "We need to get
through to the end of the year to get
some more visibility on earnings, but
companies are holding on to workers. If
they're holding on to workers, you know,
it's because their sales are in good
shape, their earnings are in good shape,
their profit margins are in good shape.
So as far as we see it, the low hiring
is a lot of uncertainty regarding the
tariffs, uncertainty regarding where the
Fed finally settles, but in the end of
it, we don't see that this is
necessarily the beginning of a labor
market unwind. But don't we already have
certainty for the most part? The tariff
levels are set. We know the direction of
travel. We know the direction of travel
of the Fed. What is so uncertain about
this environment right now?
>> I think that when you're thinking about
the tariff levels, you know, there's
been a lot of negotiating on them. They
were set at very high levels. They're
then they got renegotiated down. There's
always room when there's negotiations.
You've got to think that is there
potential that they're going to go lower
if the US hits much of a soft patch.
Let's just say this low hiring, low
firing starts to go into either an
inflationary surge or if you get into
this environment where you have maybe
the low hiring and the firing starts to
go up. I think that the Fed and I think
the administration would likely respond
to that. They have a midterm election
coming up in 2026. The clock starts
actually this November and they want an
economy that is briskly growing uh for
the midterm elections.
>> I think it's already started to be fair.
I was looking at the PMIs yesterday.
Inventory levels not great. New orders
not great.
>> I was hoping things would pick up. Don't
see many signs of it. The ability to
pass through higher prices to consumers.
Bit of push back there too.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, but consumer spending has been
relatively strong, right?
>> It has been. But I'm just looking at the
PMIs yesterday. I think it was a hope
that in September things would pick up
and reacelerate. I just haven't seen
that yet. I hope that it's backed up by
other data points. Just don't see it
yet.
>> Well, I think the consumer has been
acting like this. They kind of go
through these spurts. They spend for
back to school, then they kind of go
into hibernation, then they spend for
the holidays, right? So, the consumer
has been looking for a lot of deals for
a long time. This has to, of course, you
know, think through this, you know, this
period of where you've got some
uncertainty around inflation and higher
prices do scare consumers, right? they
start to look for better bargains. They
go for, you know, off label brands. But
I would say once you start to go look go
through for the holiday shopping, you
may have a lull for October and
November. But let's start looking at
those kind of after Thanksgiving sales.
>> We'll do just that. Barbara, it's good
to see you. Thanks for dropping by.
Thank you. Barbara Reinhardt there of
Voya Investment Management looking for
that pickup, that reaceleration into 26.
>> Just saying. Household, if you're
listening, I'm not saving my money for
some sort of big present in December.
No, I'm kidding. I just uh but I do
think this is really the key question if
you're looking for it the reaceleration.
Right now it's not clear in the data and
that's uncertainty is leading a lot of
people to wonder which to weigh more
heavily the labor market or potentially
what you're seeing with growth.
>> Barbara's right though. Retail sales
have been really quite robust. Totally.
>> The last print was fantastic. I want to
see more of that and the reaceleration
that this equity market is already
priced for. We need to start seeing some
real evidence of it into year end.
>> Yeah. You talked to a CEO of an airplane
uh provider, an airline and they are
pretty optimistic. So, they're seeing
it. They're saying people are are are
looking to travel. And I will just say
that if you want to book flights to a
hot spot this winter during school
break, good luck.
>> What did Scott Kirby say about that to
you last week?
>> Well, that's normal. I mean, if you want
to go to popular places, what do you
expect? He didn't he didn't provide any
particular
>> from United Airlines.
>> Well, that's okay.
>> Bra still flying Delta. Let's keep an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Shares of Alibaba and Nvidia
are seeing a boost in early trading with
Alibaba up nearly 10% after it announced
it will integrate Nvidia's AI
development tools into its cloud
software plat platform that will give
customers the blocks to build AI for the
physical world which is of course spans
everything from humanoid robots to
selfdriving cars. Meanwhile, hundreds of
federal employees who lost their jobs in
a cost cutting blitz led by Elon Musk's
Doge are now being asked to return to
work. According to the Associated Press,
employees of the General Services
Administration who manage government
workspaces have until the end of the
week to ex accept or decline
reinstatement.
And Disney is hiking the price of its
streaming service. The plan with ads
will cost $12 a month, which is $2 more
than before. And the adree version will
cost 19 bucks. That's $3 more than
before. Disney's Not Alone. Streaming
services have been upping their prices
to try and finally convert years of
investment into returns. The new Disney
pricing will take effect October 21st.
Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Let's give it a
minute. It's an important story
>> for John.
>> Hulu Premium live TV Disney Plus ESPN
Select Plan. That's going to increase.
So, I got this email last night to
$99.99
a month. Okay. So, I went back to my old
emails cuz I've had this email a few
times.
>> I've seen the screenshots.
>> So, I went back to like 2018 2019.
This was the email I got from them back
then. Your plan's going to increase from
$39.99 to $44.99 on February 2019.
So, in 6 years, I know the plans changed
slightly in terms of what they're
offering you now, Disney Plus, etc. But
in like 6 years that thing has basically
doubled and more.
>> Do you feel like your enjoyment has
doubled? Do you feel like your happiness
factor has doubled?
>> I feel like I'm just as locked in still.
>> Well, that there you go. Paying double.
>> Exactly. Well, their happiness factor is
going up.
>> Oh, we were talking about the ability to
pass on higher prices.
>> Evidently, it's effective.
>> Hello, Mr. Ryer this morning. Okay, up
next on the program, a presidential
scolding.
>> The United Nations is funding an assault
on Western countries. Both the
immigration and their suicidal energy
ideas will be the death of Western
Europe. Your countries are going to
hell.
>> A conversation up next with Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York. Good
morning.
[Music]
Stocks are positive up by 0.2%. 2% on
the S&P 500, up by a third on the
Nasdaq, on the Russell up by 0.1. Under
Sandus this morning, a presidential
scolding.
>> Not only is the UN not solving the
problems it should too often, it's
actually creating new problems for us to
solve. The best example is the number
one political issue of our time, the
crisis of uncontrolled migration. The
United Nations is funding an assault on
Western countries. Both the immigration
and their suicidal energy ideas will be
the death of Western Europe. If
something is not done immediately, your
countries are going to hell.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump out with strong
criticism of the UN, accusing the world
body of creating new problems.
Blindberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, welcome back. You were
over there at the UN General Assembly.
Just how wellreceived was that message?
Well, John, if you were looking in the
room at the UN General Assembly, it was
really met with silence from the other
countries who were really just taking in
President Trump's message. Though, I
think it might be fair to say that some
of these countries at least were
expecting the onslaught of criticism,
though perhaps not to this extent. Take
the Brazilian president Lula for
example. in his remarks right before
President Trump, he issued a sharp
rebuke of US policies, prompting
President Trump in his own speech to say
that he intends to meet with Lula next
week. Now, we knew going into this that
President Trump was going to blast the
United Nations as an institution. And
our analysts at Bloomberg Economics do
point out that since the early decades
of the UN's founding, nearly all regions
have actually shifted further away from
the US when it comes to UN General
Assembly votes. And the data shows us
that it's actually shifted closer to
China. However, with that said, UN
General Assembly votes are non-binding
and the US still wields substantial
influence when it comes to the
institution. President Trump really
tried to use this speech to tout his own
economic policies. That's how he started
talking about domestic manufacturing and
his tariff deals, calling this the
golden age of America and then using
that to try to draw what he would say
are stark contrast to other countries,
really abandoning any calls for unity.
John, I do think it's worth pointing out
though that President Trump didn't meet
immediately after face tof face with the
UN Secretary General and he told
reporters President Trump did that while
he often disagrees with the UN, he still
stands firmly behind it.
>> Ser Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you here in New York City
following developments over at the UN
General Assembly. Could this all have
been avoided if the escalator worked
properly?
>> Not just the escalator. How does the
teleprompter not work? I mean this is
the president of the United States and
the escalator is literally working two
feet as he steps on it as he steps on.
So it is curious and Caroline Levit
shared a screen
from the times of love London that said
individual at the UN were talking about
well maybe what we'll do is do something
with the president comes like shut off
the escalator. Was that a joke or is
this for real?
>> Yeah maybe if they hadn't done that he
would have come out and said kumbaya
let's all just get behind the UN.
>> It's a joke Brammo. It's just a joke.
>> This is the president of the United
States. It's really embarrassing for the
United Nations.
>> I have to agree with you by the way is
embarrassing.
>> I totally agree with you. Joining us now
to discuss not that but everything else,
Ed Mills of Raymond James. Ed, welcome
to the program, sir. I want to pick up
on one line from the president. There
was a few, but I want to pick up on this
one. The suicidal energy ideas that will
be the death of Western Europe. Now, it
might be easy for some people to dismiss
that, but we had an auto analyst on
about 60 minutes ago, paraphrasing here,
who essentially said the suicidal energy
ideas that are killing the auto
industry. Now, Ed, does the president
have a point? Well, I think what I've
seen from the president is a strong
support of traditional hydrocarbons. Uh
we look at the reconciliation bill that
passed a couple months ago, uh that
repealed a lot of the inflation
reduction act, the green energy
provisions. Uh so this is very on brand
for him. When we go to Europe, he was
very critical of uh the oil and natural
gas that was coming from Russia into the
EU. Um and when we look at these trade
deals, he's looking to make sure that
Europe buys our energy resources. Have
the globe buy our energy resources. In
his mind, providing US energy is equal
to providing US defense support. Uh so
I'm not terribly surprised by that. And
I guess finally I think he is also very
concerned about the Chinese uh German
kind of car auto uh partnerships and he
does not want to have supply chains
going from Europe into China and then
losing the industrial capacity of
Europe. Those are really important for
our NATO allies and our alliance. We
need to make sure that industrial
capacity absolutely remains in Europe,
John. And so I think this is kind of
very consistent with what he's been
saying uh for more than a decade. And
also on brand, we hear the US government
is looking to take a stake at lithium
Americas. What do you make of this new
round of state interventionism?
>> Well, I would look at the 232 tariffs
and I would always ask the question, all
right, if we are at war with China, if
we have a another significant event
where supply chains shut down, what are
the things that we need? We do know that
there was a huge concern about the lack
of critical minerals, rare earth
minerals, uh that China has a near
monopoly or a monopoly on. Uh and we
need to produce that here in the United
States or we need sources that are not
from China. And so I think this is just
the beginning. We've had um you know
kind of MP materials. We've had Apple
invest in their own supply chain. Uh
we're going to have this investment.
We're going to see more and more of this
because we are getting some of the
domestic uh use of these or kind of uh
availability for domestic production,
but we don't have availability for
military production of a lot of these
rare earth and critical minerals. And
that's a huge national security issue uh
that is kind of bubbling below the
surface here in DC and is a huge
priority that only kind of gets more
attention as this develops. Samy,
>> is the national security concern bigger
than the concern that most conservatives
for decades would say that this creates
market dissertations?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a very different world
when we look at kind of the uh stake by
uh the US government and Intel um the
kind of partnership with Nvidia
potentially providing for uh 15% uh kind
of royalties. U I've been kind of
talking to clients at Raymond James, you
know, kind of this week and this is a
question and a theme that comes up.
they're ask all right is it a good thing
to kind of invest along with the
government is this something that we
have to look for uh more and more um
there's an uncomfortability that I find
with investors um but so far because
they are national security related and
these are areas where probably the
private market does not operate on its
own uh they're okay with it they
probably prefer to kind of have the
subsidy rather than the co-investment
because of the traditional kind of you
know barrier between commerce uh in the
government, but this is Trump's style
and so far he's going to kind of
continue to push for this. Um I don't
see a lot of opposition um especially
when the dollars come with it. Amory
>> Ed, do you expect to understand uh the
frameworks of some sort of sovereign
wealth fund in the near term that could
potentially guide some of your clients a
little bit better?
>> Yeah, potentially. I mean, one of the
questions comes is like, all right, so
when we have the stake in Intel, when we
make these investments in these
companies, where does the money go? um
to have a sovereign wealth fund, you do
need a legislative vehicle that
officially creates that. Um when we've
had different investments in companies
previously, usually you know look back
to the global financial crisis where we
made investments uh in the auto industry
obviously investments in the bank. Uh
when there are profits from that that
just goes into the Treasury general
fund. So it's hard to account especially
when you have a debt and deficit as high
as we do for the actual return on these
things. So, if we have a sovereign
wealth fund, if we have a guiding
principle, maybe we get a better
understanding of what that is, but I'm
still waiting on that legislation, Lisa,
uh, to occur. It just hasn't happened
yet.
>> Ed, you're one of the best a clinic as
always. Thank you, sir. Ed Mills there
of Raymond James. I know some of the
policies are polarizing as politics is
often the way, but I agree with Rick
Reer of Black Rockck. This is probably
the most interesting time for investors
like ever. and he said it based on his
career that it's the most interesting
time for him ever in his career.
>> Do you think he's going to be the next
Fed chair?
>> I've got no idea.
>> Are you going to be the next Fed chair?
>> If he becomes the next Fed chair, things
get even more interesting for me.
>> Yeah, that's right. Oh, is that an
endorsement? I think that was just an
endorsement.
>> No, I don't think it was.
>> Come on and talk about it.
>> I don't think it was. We're not doing
endorsements here.
>> But if he gets it,
>> then come on.
>> From New York City, this is Bloomberg.
Equity
[Music]
futures on the S&P positive here by 0.2%
on the S&P 500. Pulling back in
yesterday's session breakin snapping a
3-day winning streak on the S&P. No
drama this morning by 0.3 on the Nasdaq
100. As we count it down to the opening
bell about 2 hours away. Let's get you
some single names, some morning movers.
Let's cross over to Danny for more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It doesn't m matter whether
it's a US AI company or a Chinese one.
If you spend more on AI, you get
rewarded. And that's the case with
Alibaba. You're looking at the US ADRs
this morning, but the CEO saying that
they will be spending more. The original
target was for $50 billion over the next
3 years. The CEO says that they need to
keep up with the trillions that are
going to be being spent by this industry
over the next few years. So those shares
up 9.1%.
Elsewhere, a little bit of sellside
action. Amazon getting an upgrade this
morning. So those shares up by 1.4% 4%
with the analyst there saying that their
AWS is going to be looking better than
expected with a growth of 22% in 2026.
The expectations had been for something
that looks more like 18%. Their price
target now implies a 27% upside on the
current Amazon price. Still surging this
morning is lithium America's with the
Trump administration reportedly looking
at converting a $2.3 billion loan from
the Department of Energy into a 10%
equity stake. They're specifically
looking at one of their minds in Nevada
to which the loan is also held uh an
interest is also held with GM. They were
looking already at restructuring that
loan. So you see GM shares also rising
in sympathy with lith lithium Americas
who by the way put out a statement just
in the past hour just confirming that
they were indeed talking with the Trump
administration. So those shares up just
under 69% John.
>> So basically anyone in line for a loan
approved by the Biden administration is
everyone just going through those names
seeing if they're listed and just buying
those stocks now. Is that been the last
month?
>> That's actually very smart. I think you
should make an ETF for that.
>> I'm sure someone already has.
>> I'm sure that someone has
>> on our radar this morning. Fed chair J
power reiterating there is no risk-free
path for rate cuts saying labor market
and inflation outlooks create a
challenging situation this after newly
minted Fed Governor Steven Marin called
for aggressive rate cuts. Elsewhere,
President Trump believes Ukraine can
reclaim all of its territory from Russia
following a meeting with the country's
leader Vladimir Zalinski. Trump also
saying NATO members should shoot down
Russian aircraft that enter their
airspace. And finally, let's get back to
that story. Lithium America soaring on
reports that the Trump administration is
seeking up to a 10% stake in the
company. The news coming as the White
House negotiates loan terms for the
company's lithium mine project in
Nevada.
>> Look, this is something a lot of people
have talked about, especially after uh
US auto manufacturing basically ground
to a halt when the US uh China trade
relationship soured to a really
difficult degree. It is clear the US is
relying on China for some of these
precious uh min minerals. And at that
point, how do you become self-reliant?
You can say whatever you want, but there
seems to be some sort of backdoor
sovereign wealth fund that is emerging
from the United States. And one thing
that a lot of people want to get their
hands heads around is what are the
contours of that sovereign wealth fund?
How big is it? How far is it going to
go? And how do people get ahead of it?
And this all has basically the US
administration talking about the fact
that they care more about national
security than they do about basically if
they look like they're having state
capitalism right now. now and this
intervention is because when you look at
the companies they are going after it
goes back to the raw materials and what
we had the past few days is a group of
lawmakers in Washington go to Beijing
and they ended with a press conference
saying this is one issue that's not
resolved and it is the rare earths and
raw materials that the entire world
basically just depends on China. So for
the United States this administration
doesn't like grants. They don't like the
loans from the Biden administration. So
they're like we're going to do something
different. We're taking 5 to 15% stakes
in these companies that we think is so
important to our domestic critical
infrastructure.
>> I think we're all sympathetic with the
aversion to central planning. I'll leave
that there. When it comes to this
particular problem though, when we spoke
to City about 60 minutes ago about what
was happening with Europe, he was
pointing to the US at least on a number
of issues. They're listening to where
the consumer is right now, the kind of
things that they're buying and the
automakers are responding accordingly
and the government is giving them space
to respond. In addition to that,
lithium, we need to secure some of that.
They're doubling down and making sure
that we have access to those things. All
these things happening in America that
would arguably help some of these
automakers. And I know there's other
issues with the tariffs that are hurting
them. I know there's other issues with
immigration that might be hurting them.
But on a number of issues, it's helping
them. You're not seeing it take place in
Europe.
>> This is the reason why there was this
question, is the European auto
manufacturing sector viable right now
for an investment? And the answer is
unclear. I think that longer term there
is this feeling that the US doesn't have
the luxury and nowhere has the luxury of
just standing still that inaction is a
decision and it isn't one that people
want to be taking at a time where the
global order is shifting and I think
that that is what's being recognized in
the US too much controversy but maybe is
a question of how quickly can other
places do something similar.
>> I'm sure they just love some cheaper
steel now on top of everything else but
that's a different story for US
automakers. That's true. Lithium
Americas up in a pre-market by about
70%. Let's turn to the equity market.
Chairman Pal weighing in on valuations.
>> Equity prices will move up and down and
we do monitor that, but we're not we're
not targeting any level of of prices for
particular financial assets. We don't
have a view that we know what the right
price of any particular financial asset
is. By many measures, uh, for example,
equity prices are are are fairly highly
valued.
>> What a run we've had for the equity
market. 28 all-time highs on the S&P 500
and the rally just keeps on climbing.
Rick Wor, the president and CEO of
Charles Swab, joins us now to discuss.
Welcome to the program, sir. It's good
to see you,
>> Jonathan. Nice to be here.
>> Welcome back, Rick. It's always good to
see you. What a year it's been already
for 25. Still got three or four months
left. Can you frame for us how engaged
your clients have been over the last
year?
>> Our clients are very engaged. Our
trading activity this year has generally
been about 30% higher than last year.
So, clients are in the market, they're
invested. I I've I've been in about 15
of our retail branches in the last
couple weeks and I was in Princeton, New
Jersey yesterday and I asked a client
how they were feeling and I think they
synthesized what our investors are
feeling really well. They said, "I'm
happy but I'm nervous." And they're
happy because markets are at all-time
high. Their balances have never been
higher, but they're looking at
valuations and wondering, you know, am I
going to be okay? So, it's it's a great
time because they're looking to us for
advice and they're coming in and they're
talking to us and they're hearing from
our experts, but it's uh you know,
overall they're happy because markets
are up.
>> What do you think the dominant anxiety
is at the moment? We've been trying to
ask this question. Is it the anxiety to
get out? Do you have to do some
handholding or is it the fear of missing
out? Are they looking to lean in a
little bit more aggressively?
>> I think our clients are generally
engaged and invested. So, I think it's
more, hey, I I have more wealth now than
I anticipated. Markets have done better
than I thought. Do I need to be worried
about valuations and should I be getting
out? I think interestingly, as it
relates to the bond market, we're seeing
a lot more interest in bonds now because
with rates coming down, investors are
wondering, do I need to go out the
curve? I've been living off my purchase
money fund, but the yields on that are
coming down. Do I need to go out the
curve and lock in higher yields? So
that's that's been a topic of hot debate
among our clients as well.
>> The sort of elusive money on the
sidelines that we talk about that's
supposed to rush back into everything
else, particularly the long end of the
yield curve. Is that actually happening?
>> Well, I I think if if you look at our
clients, the percentage that they keep
in either cash or purchase money funds
has stayed relatively stable. Now when
the dollar amount has grown because
their wealth has grown so significantly
with the market increase in the last
couple of years. So from a dollar
standpoint, there is a lot of cash
sitting on the sideline. But at the same
time, it's roughly the same percentage
that they've always kept because they
want it for safety needs or they wanted
to um you know, they're purchasing a
house, whatever it may be. So, I I don't
see a big story around cash sitting on
the sidelines at the moment.
>> Do you notice a really big difference in
how your clients trade depending on
their age, depending on their
generation? For example, older uh
individuals tend to go to mega caps,
younger individuals just straight
Bitcoin.
>> Wow. We we we spend a lot of time
talking with our younger investors and
we have 35 hours a week of live
education and training to try to get
investors to think about the difference
between an equity and a coin and to make
sure they're making the right investment
decision for them. You know, I I I do
worry about
younger investors and you know, crypto
has been something that has done
exceptionally well, but I want to make
sure we want to make sure that young
investors also know about the power of
equities over the long term and that
investing generally is something that
you want to do for the long term.
Certainly, you want you can trade and
take on positions, but you shouldn't
expect quick hits all the time. And I
and I think we want to make sure that
young investors are are aware of that.
But I really appreciate in this country
the bias to invest, the bias to act, the
bias to take a bet. In the UK, I saw
some numbers recently about how much
consumers were investing, but how much
of it was just going to really, really
low yield stuff,
>> like cash funds, stuff like that. There
isn't the same bias to invest in
equities and risk that I've seen growing
up in the UK that exists here. Where do
you think that comes from in America?
And how do we continue to nurture it?
>> Well, I think it's great. And and not
only has it been great, it's getting
even better. If you look at millennials,
uh, they're 40% more likely to be
invested by the age of 21 than than
Jenzers. So, it's it's happening with
younger investors as well, and we're
trying to engage them where they are. We
go to YouTube, Tik Tok, Instagram, and
we put out videos about the power of
compounding, and and we try to get them
interested in investing because if you
start young and become an investor,
you're hopefully you'll stick with it,
and you'll build wealth. It's the single
best way to build wealth in our country
is to be an investor. And young people
today are embracing it far more than
prior generations, which is outstanding
to see. It used to be that all those
opportunities were in public markets
that you'd get that blockbuster IPO that
you'd want to get exposure to. Now, a
lot of it staying private. How are you
thinking about offering opportunities in
private markets for customers coming
forward from here? What kind of things
are they looking to do?
>> Yeah, it's it's an interesting question.
there there's a lot more private
companies than there used to be and
fewer public companies. And so I do
think it makes sense to think about
providing direct access to retail
investors to private companies. And
that's something that we're we're
looking at and thinking about how we
participate in but these some of these
companies are huge. You look at the
Stripes Open AAI uh 500 billion.
>> Yeah. They're they're billiondollar
companies. And so I do think retail
investors ought to be able to uh ought
to be able to invest in them and and at
the same time there's probably people
sitting at that company that would love
liquidity for their stock position. So I
think there's a market to be made there.
>> How much do you think that it's isolated
in companies versus real assets and I
say that at a time when we're talking
about the re-industrialization of the
United States and the idea that there
could be actually some oomph behind it
for the first time in a long time. I
mean, how much is that part of what
you're looking to give access to
clients?
>> Real assets.
>> Yes.
>> Well, I think um
real assets have been a great way to
invest in our country and uh the main
thing we focus on is differentiating
between productive assets and
speculative assets. And I think real
assets are productive assets. Um and so
it's a great way for a client to get
invested. Are you concerned about you
keep talking about the coin and you're
concerned about it and actually the
productive versus unproductive. Do you
think that that's actually a point of
concern right now in markets the amount
of involvement in the crypto space?
Well,
>> I think I think crypto could end up
being very very valuable and there's a
role for it to play and and there's a
role for tokenization and the
blockchain.
What's important to us is that
investors, particularly young investors,
know what they're investing in and know
why it makes sense for them to be
invested in it and understand the
difference between say an equity and a
bond which have some positive expected
return and and they're a productive
asset. And just understanding the
difference between that and a more
speculative asset like art or baseball
cards or or crypto where you don't know
what the what the future return is going
to be. We it's not that we we don't
judge people's investments and we can
see a world where crypto is very very
valuable but we want clients to
understand the difference between those
investments.
>> Do you think next year's you're going to
have more opportunities for either
hiring or strategic opportunities
because you think policy is clear now
out of Washington?
>> You know what what's driving our hiring
is the growth of our business. We're
we're growing at a at a really strong
rate. We're seeing a lot of engagement
from clients. Uh increasingly they want
advice from us. They want our help in
their financial life. Uh and because of
that, that that's what's driving our
growth growth. It's not about what's
happening with policy.
>> Can I just finish on the potential for a
partnership on private markets? I wanted
to ask you that. Is that something you
consider a partnership with another firm
to offer that kind of access?
>> I think we we would love to see retail
investors be able to participate in the
growth of private companies in our
country.
>> So would Apollo. I've heard the same
thing from them. I'm trying to make a
market now. and and and we have yeah we
and we have KKR on you know f u firms
like KKR on our platform. Yeah. And uh
that that our retail investors can
invest in and that's a great way to get
access to uh private markets that
they're experts. They they started the
market. They've been forever. That's a
very thoughtful way for our investors to
go be a part of private markets.
>> Seems like this is the direction of
travel at least for retail.
>> Well and it seems like the uh regulatory
landscape is open opening up to to pave
the way for that. The question is just
what form that will take and whether
private markets the new public markets
whether there's any difference like
Apollo has said maybe not and this is
sort of the new uh path ahead for a lot
>> are we mediating trying to broker a deal
>> I think we that was a good try by the
way
>> and Rick really effectively navigated
that
>> Rick appreciate your time thanks for
dropping by thank you sir Rick Worester
the Charles Schwab CEO if you are just
joining us equity futures on the S&P
positive here by a tenth of 1% with an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief Here's
Yahihara for more. Hi Yhara.
>> Hi John. Micron shares have now turned
lower in the pre-market down 1.3%.
That's despite the chipmaker topping
revenue estimates for the current
quarter due to high demand for its AI
hardware. The outlook validates the idea
that Micron has become a key beneficiary
of AI spending due to its high bandwidth
memory products. Micron said it expects
supply of memory chips to remain tight
into next year, but as I said, shares
are lower. Meanwhile, the Bloomberg
Philanthropy's Global Forum takes place
today alongside the United Nations
General Assembly in New here in New
York. The event hosted by Michael
Bloomberg brings together top leaders,
including the ones you can see behind me
from the public, private, and nonprofit
sectors to address the world's most
urgent challenges and opportunities. You
can tune in starting at 9:15 a.m.
Eastern. And the RDER Cup opening
ceremony has been changed to today at
400 p.m. Eastern. It was originally
scheduled for Thursday, but was moved up
because of inclement weather in the
forecast. United States Captain Keegan
Bradley and European Captain Luke Donald
will still announce the Friday morning
forsomes pairings on Thursday. So, we
will have to wait. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> looking forward to that one. Yahara,
thank you. Up next, passing on tariff
costs.
>> There's a lot of uncertainty about the
direction of public policy and so
companies are holding off. That may be a
way of passing on tariff costs. The pass
through to consumers has been later and
less than we expected.
>> Up next, Russ Branach of Black Rockck
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P positive here
by 0.1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ up
by 0.2 two in the bond market. Treasury
stabilized at the front end of the curve
on a 2-year bond yield this morning
around 357 on 10s around 411 under
Savannah this morning passing on tariff
costs. There's a lot of uncertainty
about the direction of public policy and
so companies are holding off that may be
a way of passing on tariff costs. It is
something that is and driving up uh
inflation a bit and the question is are
companies then are they going to
eventually be able to pass that stuff
through and then that might drive
inflation up a little higher. The pass
through to consumers has been later and
less than we expected. So here's the
latest this morning. Fed chair J Pal
calling the current environment a
challenging situation with risk to the
labor market and inflation. Russ
Brownback the deputy CEO of global fixed
income at BlackRock joins us now for
more. Russ always good to catch up with
you.
>> Morning.
>> Thanks for being here. How are you
capturing the division at the Federal
Reserve and thinking about how to apply
that into ideas to invest in fixed
income?
>> Yep. So, we agree with where the markets
are pricing uh forward Fed policy rather
than the dots. Um we've talked about in
previous appearances here, we talked
about the suboptimality of uh the policy
setting today. And you know, we look at
an economy that's doing fine. You know,
if you look through the noisy GDP
measures, you look at gross domestic
income, you look at private final
demand, you know, it's humming right
along at 2%. But beneath the surface,
there's dispersion. Millions of
low-income, lowwealth households
suffering from floating rate debt, all
the credit card debt, all the auto loan
debt, student loan debt, and like small
companies which employ 40% of the people
in the labor force today. That's where
the floating rate debt is. And the
housing market is really suffering. I
mean the the turnover in the housing
market approaching you know sort of GFC
kinds of levels today. And so that that
policy setting today while not you know
denting the overall uh economy is my
analogy is it's like you can run your
car at 70 m hour if you have 3/4 tire
pressure but your fuel efficiency is not
optimal and your ride isn't as smooth as
it could be. Why not pump the the tires
all the way up to full pressure and have
a better ride?
>> So pumping up the tires is what? cutting
interest rates by another 50 basis
points.
>> So, listen, I think, you know, I I I'm
uh I think there's too many modern
contemporary influences today to for
anybody to have a real guess at what
what uh neutral is. Um but a forandle on
the overnight rate when forward uh
inflation markets are telling you
inflation's headed to the low twos is
too ownorous. Um, and so I I think
ultimately the as the data unfolds, it
will become clear that the Fed can
deliver what's priced.
>> If you have a smoother ride, you can go
a lot faster. And that is one concern.
If you cut right uh cut rates to smooth
the ride, I'm really going far with this
analogy. I think we can stop it here,
but I just am wondering how much this
actually makes you not want to invest in
the long end of the yield curve.
>> So I don't think there's dissonance
between the idea that the Fed can be
easing at a time when the economy is
fine. I don't believe we live in a
secular disinflationary environment. We
lived for a decade into the pandemic
with too little inflation. The central
bank was fighting inflation from
beneath. I understand the scar tissue
from what happened in the pandemic. When
you pump $5 trillion into the bank
accounts of the private sector at the
time that the supply chain is shutting
down, you get too much money chasing too
few goods. That's inflation. You need to
lead against that. They did, but they've
rung that out of the system today. If
you look at core PCE on a trailing 3, 6,
12-month basis, two and a half years, it
looks like a black diamond ski slope
coming straight down. That descent has
slowed because tariffs are making goods
prices tick up. But when you move goods
prices up one time, that's not
inflation. Inflation is a recurring
phenomenon where goods get marked up,
people pay more, then they ask for
higher wages and so on, that's not what
hap what's happening today. You've got
price stability, which is actually the
Fed's mandate. You look at the
volatility of inflation. One last
statistic I'll give you. We measure the
variability of the rate of change of
$100 basket of PCE consump consumption
items over the last year. That's 37. Two
years ago that was $3. So the Fed has
won the battle of price stability. So
aside from running for Fed chair
yourself, I am wondering going forward
uh whether this just means that you're
going to invest wholesale in duration at
this point given the fact that right now
there's a lot of concern in markets
about a very different view than what
you just put out there.
>> So it's a great question. The markets
though have priced the view that I just
laid out. And so that's priced.
>> So we think that the yield curve is kind
of in equilibrium here. As I've said
before, the front end's anchored to Fed
policy. The longer end sort of
gravitates toward nominal GDP outcomes.
So in the fixed income portfolios today,
we don't see a big directional trade in
rates. We've called it the golden age of
income. It's about just harvesting the
yields today that sit so far above
inflation.
>> You're sound like you're talking about a
pro productivity boom next year. And I'm
interested because we're going into a
midterm election where most polls
continuously show that Americans are
concerned about inflation. Even if it's
a one-time price adjustment, it is still
going to be higher in terms of cost of
goods. Or do you think corporate America
is going to absorb as much as they can?
So I I think sometimes, you know, these
surveys probably capture sentiment about
high prices as distinct from inflation.
You know, we we have inflation that's
come all the way back down into the two.
It would be in the mid-2s if it weren't
for tariff increases. So when people are
talking about, you know, trading down
from hamburgers to hot dogs, it's in
deference to high prices, not inflation.
So I think that's conflicted in the
surveys. Productivity, we we after a
decade of a pro a productivity bust,
we're looking at 2% productivity today.
Think about what that means. Means you
can grow the economy at 2% real without
adding one minute to the hours worked
during the work week. Um, and there's
many uh prognosticators that suggest
that's going to be inflecting higher
still to 3 or 4%. Uh, I happen to be an
optimist in that regard. So, I think you
can have your cake and eat it too.
>> Russ, I want to finish on this.
Something that your colleague, our
friend Rick Reer, has said recently.
Said it a few times. This is the most
interesting time for investment that
he's ever seen. I imagine you agree with
that. What's so fascinating about this
moment in time?
>> So, worked with Rick for 33 years. We've
seen all the eb and flow of everything.
You know, about a decade ago, we stepped
off the efficient frontier of unbridled
globalization. You've got generations
worth of norms in geopolitics, in trade,
in fiscal policy, in monetary policy
being shattered. So, that creates
moments and bouts of uncertainty. But
that's what we live for in markets. You
know, when you get the dislocation and
you can go in and tactically trade
around that, that's nirvana for us.
>> Russ, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Russ Brownback there of Black
Rockck. I couldn't agree more. All these
different things happening. Don't follow
the VIX. That kind of burries the story.
You've got all this volatility elsewhere
to take advantage of.
>> There's sea changes in technology, see
changes in trade flows, see changes in
just demographics and how much uh people
are aging and how they're investing. And
I just am really stuck in the idea of
trading down to hot dogs from
hamburgers. That made me a little sad.
>> That is sad, isn't it?
>> I just I hope that that's not happening
because I personally
>> No, that's real.
>> But that is real and that's there's also
that issue and how you actually factor
that in as well. Not to bring it to
that, but I have to bring it to that.
>> Okay. Coming up on the program, Daryl
Crock of Wells Fargo, Greg Tartto of
Goldman Sachs, Nathan Sheets of City and
Vishy, Philipur of Morgan Stanley. All
of that in the third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
[Music]
The key driver of this bull market has
been AI and tech.
>> We're becoming still very dependent on a
smaller handful of stocks. As investors,
what we need to do is separate out what
is the medium-term trend from the
short-term cyclical trading trend.
>> Next year, we do see earnings improving
10%.
>> We have Q3 earnings coming up. We don't
have a beat and a raise. I think you
will see a pullback in the market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> 90 minutes away from the opening bow.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah and starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 just about
positive by 0.2% bouncing back from
yesterday's losses. Some big AI spending
plans we can talk about in just a
moment. The NASDAQ up by a quarter of 1%
in the bond market. Light on data
through to Friday. Looking for jobless
claims tomorrow on Friday. PCE yields
down by a basis point at the front end
357 up to the long end 412. the curve
steepening somewhat going into that data
this week, Thursday and Friday for
claims and PCE in between tons more
Fedspe and look out for Costco earnings
too just to get a flavor of where
companies are at right now and their
ability to pass on higher costs.
>> Yeah, yesterday in the PMI data that we
got out of the United States, there was
a sense that maybe companies were having
a harder time passing along those costs.
So maybe this is actually a positive
signal when it comes to just how much
inflation can accelerate, albeit maybe
less positive for margins. That said,
the likes of Costco, the likes of
Walmart, the likes of Home Depot, how
much are the giants in the retail space
consolidating market share with
efficiencies of scale, with efficiencies
of technology that put them in a
different a different realm. And that
actually is also what I'm listening for.
>> They should just announce some big AI
spend. If Bloomberg Surveillance was a
stock, I'd be announcing an extra $10
billion this morning. Alibaba up by 9%
in the pre-market after announcing
they're going to spend more on AI.
>> Yeah, maybe you could just say you're
replacing me with an AI bot and all of a
sudden the shares sound that stock.
>> Oh, that's so sweet. Look, yes, we have
seen a huge I'm going to move on because
I was just so touched. That's so sweet
of you. I am thinking that this is
something that the market is endorsing
the spending plans for artificial
intelligence and that ultimately will be
a self-fulfilling prophecy until it
isn't. It's sort of the uh Dan
Greenhouse school of thought that it can
be a bubble but you still want to keep
buying until you don't and then you
don't want to be buying and that's sort
of what AI investment plans have looked
like.
>> This circular trend on the way up it
feels great. It makes a lot of sense
with the way down. How big is that
downside could it potentially be? But
this number, and you mentioned it a few
times, Jonathan, this morning when you
have the CEO of Alibaba talking about
overall investment in AI, $4 trillion
worldwide over the next 5 years, and
Alibaba needs to keep up. And now you
see just the absolute arms race between
Beijing and Washington.
>> I think Pete Cheriff Academy was great
earlier this morning. He talked about
the difference between early innings and
late innings. The spending plans are
early inex. The valuations are late
inex. That's the problem market
participants have got right now.
>> Yeah. But not ending, right? So at a
certain point you might bring it all
forward and then look at the percolation
of those investments as the rest of the
sphere. This is a very difficult thing
to really get your hands around on any
level. The one quote that I keep
thinking about is when Microsoft and
Meta were saying that the risk is not
investing enough, not investing, it's
not necessarily investing too much. And
that is clearly what we're seeing across
the entire industry. How many innings
are there?
>> How many are there? There's nine.
>> No, it depends. It depends. Extra
innings.
>> Yeah, there could be extra innings, but
overall, let's let's say don't worry.
Nine. You really wanted to start this
conversation.
>> Yeah, I just wanted to
>> Well, yeah, because the Yankees are now
in the playoffs. Squeeze that in. Why
does the Mets? What's happen to the
Mets?
>> Mets are Mets in.
>> All right, this is good. Okay, coming up
on the program, Lisa might be gone.
Daryl Krunk of Wells Fargo on the latest
AI spending plans. Greg Torto of Goldman
Sachs asset management on the small cap
breakout. and Nathan Sheets of City
Global on a divided Federal Reserve. We
begin this hour as Alibaba becomes the
latest company to ramp up AI spending
plans. Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo
writing, "We are closer to the beginning
than the end of a new capex super cycle.
The additional power and energy needs
alone to fuel the AI revolution may be
the largest constraint." Daryl joins us
now for more. Daryl, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Are we going to keep on rewarding these
companies making these big
announcements?
>> I think in the near term, yes. I mean, I
don't see any slowdown to that. I mean,
I quite frankly, I think the Alibaba CEO
with his comment this morning might be
light on the 4 trillion. I mean, there's
a lot of estimates out there that it's
actually six to 7 trillion. And in fact,
if you take every dollar spent on just
AI alone, it's estimated there's
probably three to four dollars needed to
be spent on the infrastructure to
support that AI, right? So, if you don't
want to own and pick the next winner in
the race, right, who's going to win that
ultimate AI race, you own the picks and
shovels, right? you own the the stuff
that that pulls into that, right? It's a
safer play. It could be through the
energy mix. It could be through data
centers, could be through utilities.
Like, there's a number of ways to play
that.
>> Well, there is a company that owns the
shovels. It's Nvidia and now they're
buying gold mines or at least taking
stakes in them. Isn't that confusing?
>> It is a little confusing, right? I mean,
I don't I don't know that that's where
you need to be, but when you have that
much free cash flow, you got to do
something with it, right? Um and so I I
think you're going to continue to see
that trend. I think what people miss
here is you talk about these big seismic
trends, you know, in history, you know,
industrial revolution, the development
or or or birth of the internet, all this
stuff. It's when founders and disruptors
show up at the same time and they
collide and they change the landscape,
right? And I think that's a moment that
we're in. So, you can we can look at the
stock market and say, look, you know,
the market has lived since April without
more than a 2.7% S&P correction. The
longest duration of that correction is 4
days. We're a little exhausted. We're a
little tired. If you look at the
advanced decline line, like we could we
could move sideways, but I think if you
back out and see the secular trends that
are at play, I think that's what's
important here, right? It's the super
capex cycle. It's the AI revolution.
It's the onshoring manufacturing
renaissance, it's deregulation, right?
It's all these things happening
simultaneously that I think are a
powerful concoction.
>> I think what Pete Sher was getting at is
everyone's stepping back. Everyone's
appreciating the awe of this moment and
valuate valuing it very highly without
getting there yet even if we're in the
early innings of the actual investment
and the actual execution of this grand
uh technology and technological
disruption. So how do you sort of bridge
that gap of valuation and everyone
stepping back appreciating the awe and
not necessarily seeing it get done?
Well, for us in portfolios, you know,
we're we're on the wrong side of the
trade the last 30 days of being
unfavorable small caps, right? Which
have been, you know, ever since the
Fed's going to cut interest rates and
this is going to go wild. It it's
ironic. I was looking last night. So,
last year, the Russell 2000, $67 of
earnings, right? This year, it's on
track for $72 of earnings, $5, so call
it 7%. Next year, $102.
That's a 42% increase in earnings by
Bloomberg's own estimates of what the
street has. No way. No way. I mean,
you're not getting that out of small
caps, you know, next year. So, so I
think to answer your question is you can
still play this trend in a number of
ways. Picks and shovels is one. You can
go up market um in quality and stay with
a large cap where they are generating
that free cash flow, where they are
truly generating the earnings. I'd be
really careful about the dash for trash
right now. I think that looks
overextended to us. Places where
everybody just decided, okay, this this
rally is going to live forever and I'm
going down the quality spectrum. That
just doesn't make sense to us right now.
>> So, and what you're what you're
discussing is something people have been
debating. Do you stay with the high-f
flyers or do you look elsewhere? And
you're saying you can look elsewhere,
but be careful, but also stick with the
high flyers. Is that kind of what I'm
hearing?
>> Yeah. I mean, we're we're overweight
tech and the portfolios, but but tech is
not a vertical, right? Tech is a
horizontal now, right? It's touching
every obviously sector and and industry
that's out there. So I think you can
have that. We love financials. Our our
best idea is financials right now
because I mean obviously as the yield
curve steepen that's great for NI
there's no early signs of delinquencies
defaults right the M&A and IPO world is
picking up ex I mean IPOs are up 63%
year to date. M&A is up another 35% year
to date year-over-year on run rate
numbers. I mean that's all great for
those types of industries. Industrials
are doing well. Utilities are doing
well. So, everybody's talked about the
equal weight S&P 500. I won't drain
that, you know, conversation again, but
but it is true the breath is expanding
out, right, when you look at it. And I
think you can own some really great
companies at reasonable valuations here
and not be afraid about chasing the uber
high valuations all the time. When you
say sticks and shovels and you're
looking at potentially the AI buildout,
are you looking at companies that have a
loan or a grant from the US government
because you think this administration is
going to take an outright stake?
>> Um, you can, but I I would still re
that's where I would go back, Emory, to
the fund fundamentals. I'm not sure
those are the greatest fundamental
companies. There's a reason that equity
injection is coming, right, for the
support and the, you know, cornerstone
of the industry. I would still look for
companies that could do it on their own,
right? and not necessarily um need that
type of of support in the equation. Um
it is it is odd that we're doing it
through equity, right? I mean, history
tells you there's examples where that's
come through through loans and debt and
other ways of repayment. Um the true
equity stake in those core industries, I
think, is a is a little bit of a game
changer.
>> Do you think this could distort the
market, what the US government is doing?
Um, I think the only way it really
distorts the market if there's a if
there's an in and an out and an in and
an out and it's very episodic, right, in
the in the way it's done. If it's a true
sustainable long-term investment,
probably not other than the the moment
in time that it's announced, right?
>> They are attempting to backs stop the
Argentine market right now. So, I'm
going to bring you some breaking news
from the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
just moments ago. The Treasury is
currently in negotiations with Argentine
officials for a$20 billion dollar swap
line with the central bank. We're
working in close coordination with the
government to prevent excessive
volatility. The Treasury Secretary going
on to say in addition, the United States
stands ready to purchase secondary or
primary government debt. And we are
working with the Argentine government to
end the tax holiday for commodity
producers converting foreign exchange.
The most effective backs stop, the best
kind of backs stop is one you don't
actually have to use. And we'll see what
happens next with this one.
>> Yeah, especially given that this is
almost a threat to what Scott Besson,
Treasury Secretary, calls the
speculators and that Argentina has all
of the tools to defeat the speculators.
Is this something that will get called
upon or is this the vote of confidence
that Javier Mle needed, especially given
some of the recent losses in recent
elections?
>> Absolutely. We're going to, I think,
know at the end of October whether or
not this worked or not. at least
politically to backs stop MLE and his
government um when it comes to really
tough race in terms of the austerity
measures he has put in place that are
now starting to backfire a bit
politically.
>> This of course is very different but I
always remember what Mario Draggy did in
the Euro zone debt crisis when he first
took over and came up with the unlimited
bond buying plan which eventually was
known as OMT. I think it was outright
monetary transactions or something like
that. It was so effective that he never
had to buy a single bond with it. It was
a plan that was never activated and it
scared the speculators off. I imagine
for the Treasury Secretaries coming up
with a plan that you don't want to be on
the other side of at the moment and
we'll see how effective it is for the
weeks and months to come because it's
not just about getting through the next
couple of days. It's providing some
longerterm stability.
>> Yeah. And Argentina has an unusual
amount of hair on it considering the
fact that it's defaulted on its
sovereign debt nine times.
>> You bring the bazooka, right? That's
>> Do you think this is the bazooka this
morning?
>> I I think it is. Um because again to
your point, you want to make a big step
in there. And remember remember the old
adage about um financial markets stop
panicking when central banks start
panicking, right? So when you bring the
bazooka, it usually means central banks
are engaging and that's when financial
markets usually make that inflection
point.
>> Daryl, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you, sir. Daryl Kron
there of Wells Fargo. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahihara with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. During a meeting with Ukrainian
President Zalinski at the UN, President
Donald Trump said NATO nations should
shoot down Russian aircraft that violate
their airspace. Separately, the
president saying on Truth Social that he
believes Ukraine can win back all of its
territory from Russia. He also said
Moscow is fighting aimlessly, calling
the country a paper tiger.
Meanwhile, President Trump has canled a
government funding meeting with
Democratic lawmakers. It comes as a
shutdown deadline is just one week away.
Trump stated he wouldn't meet until
Democrats become realistic with their
demands, which currently include
extending Affordable Care Act tax
credits and rolling back some of the
president's earlier policies included in
his big beautiful bill. And OpenAI is
expanding its data center push under its
plan dubbed Stargate. It plans to invest
about $400 billion to develop five new
US data center sites in partnership with
Oracle and Soft Bank. This marks its
biggest push yet to fulfill an earlier
pledge to spend a half trillion dollars
on AI infrastructure in the country.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the morning cause plus
Greg Schwartzo of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management on the small cap breakout.
That conversation up next.
Our
[Music]
trading activity this year has generally
been about 30% higher than last year. So
clients are in the market, they're
invested, they're happy because markets
are at all-time high. Their balances
have never been higher, but they're
looking at valuations and wondering, you
know, am I going to be okay? I don't see
a big story around cash sitting on the
sidelines at the moment. Charles Swap,
CEO Brick Worster, joining us in the
last hour or so. Investors have
re-engaged in such a massive way post
April. Now, we're looking for
corporations to do the same going into
2026 and hopefully start to stimulate
this economy. If you are just joining
us, welcome to the program. Equity
futures on the S&P 500. firmer here by
0.1% on the NASDAQ up by 0.2 for the
small caps. The Russell up by 0.1 also
that's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Bank of
America raising its price target on
Alibaba to 195 as it increases its
investment in AI, seeing it as the
world's leading full stack AI services
provider. Your second call from Wells
Fargo, upgrading Amazon to overweight,
expecting greater conviction in the
Amazon web services division. And
finally, UBS upgrading General Motors to
buy holding an above consensus view for
its North American margins. That stock
is up by 2.4%. Let's stick with equities
and turn to the Russell 2000. Seeing
all-time highs as the stock market rally
broadens into small caps. That index has
rallied more than 13% since the
beginning of August. The moment we had
that payroll report for July, this stock
market has taken off as it reprices
what's going to happen with rates and
ultimately what that means for small
caps. Joining us now to discuss is Greg
Torto of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Greg, good morning, sir.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> It's good to see you. We've seen a few
head fakes for small caps before. A lot
of people are conditioned by that. How
do you understand the difference between
a head fake and a real deal? Something
more sustainable.
>> Yeah, I think the the uh the backdrop,
especially the economic backdrop for
small caps right now, is is probably the
most transparent it's been in that three
or four year time frame since we had the
last, you know, record high. you know,
the financial conditions index, which is
really important for small caps, is is
quite easy. We know we have a couple of
more rate cuts in the offing. And if you
look at some of the bottoms up
indicators for the economic activity,
we're over 3% for GDP growth in the
third quarter, which is well ahead of
where the e where the, you know, the
sellside economic forecasts are. So,
those are really, really good. And I
think that they've, you know, people
have wanted to see it before they before
they place their bets. And I think
that's what you're seeing right now in
the marketplace. Well, some people are
worried that this is a K-shaped economy.
There are a lot of people who are very
much feeling the inflation uh that has
been percolating for the past five, six
years. People are definitely having a
harder time and feeling less confident
about the labor market and that small
caps are disproportionately affected by
these trends.
>> What's to say that's ending in enough of
a sort of ground swell to give support
economically fundamentally to these
smaller companies? Well, I think you
have seen some of that, you know, trans
transposed into the market, especially
on like the restaurants sector. It's not
done well, especially in the last month
or two. August and September have not
been good for that for that space.
You're you're seeing a little bit of a
wobble in some of the retailers,
especially at the low price area. So, I
do think there are some consumer-driven
parts of the market that may not be in
the best shape. However, some of the
things you that you see that are capex
driven, you know, especially we heard
from Micron last night that they're
going to spend more money. they need to
spend more money. That translates into a
lot of, you know, kind of opportunity
for small cap companies. There's a lot
of companies out there that have that
either direct or indirect benefit from
their capital spending that we hope to
take advantage of.
>> Do you think that the Russell 2000 as an
index is the best representation of the
story that you're telling? or do you
think that it's other indexes that have
different cohorts of companies that
might be smaller or midsized but that
the Russell 2000 has a number that have
been left behind kind of and that
haven't done as well for a long time
which is why they've remained in sort of
the smaller bucket.
>> A lot of lot of interesting thoughts
came into my mind with that question. I
I do think that there are some
construction issues with the Russell
that have gone on over the over the
course of the last few years that have
brought in some things into it that you
know that are not representative of what
we're talking about. I do think that you
know in terms of you know just talking
my own book you know which I know I am
you know the active manager in the small
cap space has a significantly larger
menu to choose from to kind of to kind
of you know kind of weave inside and out
of those things. You know like think
about the biotech space. the biotech
space in 2021 compared to today. You
have to be so much more selective, but
you can find some really good
opportunities. If you just bought
biotech or biotech and the Russell 2000,
you're you're you're taking a lot of
chances there. And I and I do think
that's the that's the difference as the
Russell 2000 has tried to cast a broad
net to do these things. It's kind of
caught some things it probably didn't
want to catch.
>> Where else do you see opportunities
outside of biotech as one?
>> Yeah, biotech's one. You know, I
mentioned semicap equipment, you know,
as an area, especially after what Micron
talked about. You know, I think medtech
is starting to reemerge. I've talked
about it for a while, but I do think
that, you know, outside of outside of
some of the areas in medtech, you
haven't seen a lot of life in
healthcare. Healthcare has been tough. I
mean, I think, you know, the the SP500
healthcare got to its lowest level in in
decades. And I do think medtech is
starting to see some you know some some
some recognition for the growth that it
has which is well above you know kind of
the last three or four years kind of
moving towards mid- teens like that like
that area a lot asset managers I mean
you know just just in terms of you know
kind of what's gone on in equities many
asset managers are equity heavy you know
and then finally capital markets banks
you know we like you know Piper Jaffrey
Piper Piper Sandler a lot um you know in
terms of it exposure to not just sort of
what's happening in the equity capital
markets but also in the at capital
markets with their MUN business.
>> How much M&A do you see in small caps?
>> It's starting to really pick up. You
know, I think you're it's happening in
much smaller companies right now. I
think it's because it's, you know, the
private equity guys are so flush with
cash and they're wanting to put things
together. So, you're starting to see a
lot of two billion $3 billion deals. Um,
more PE than strategic. The strategics
will start to come, we think, as we get
closer to the end of the year. I think
that they've been waiting for this all
clear along with us. You know, price
plays a difference. And I think that,
you know, you're starting to see price
pick up off the bottoms. And that's when
strategic start to start to kind of dig
in because they're like, "Yeah, I'm not
going to get those bottom prices that I
had hoped for, so I'm going to have to
pay what what the market's dictating."
>> Greg, you're super dialed in, focused on
the fundamentals. And I respect you for
that. I think a lot of people treat
small caps differently, though. They
treat small caps like they treat EM.
It's like in and out and not for long.
And I just wonder if it's the
characteristics of the investments that
drop in and out of the asset class, if I
can call it that, that leads to these
moments where we get these head fakes,
these moments of outperformance that
don't last long. Is the money typically
faster that gets into small caps? What
is it about those investors that play in
that area of the equity market?
>> It's a great point and I think that you
know the la I've done this for almost 30
years and and it's so if you think about
the last three years prior to the you
know kind of the the prior 27 years of
my career, it wasn't like that as much.
I do think that there's been more
transition both in and out of the small
cap asset class like you discussed which
has kind of caused some of that tourist
action that we've seen but I do think
that you have a really good chance for
both beta and alpha in small caps right
now which you may not have in some of
the larger caps. People are very worried
that the larger caps are expensive. And
small caps are, you know, 25 to 40%
cheaper with better earnings revisions
characteristics right now. So they could
be even cheaper if our 26 numbers are
right
>> and a million times smaller. I don't
know by definition, but the very fact
that the Russell's 3 trillion and so is
a single name on the S&P 500. Isn't that
dictating the style of investor that
gets involved in your world?
>> It is. In some instance, you've seen a a
significantly larger, as the CEO of
Charles Schwab said, you know, kind of
proponent a proportion of retail
investors in in this move, you know,
recently. But I do think it's not always
consistent over cycles. I think they do
find other places to go. Um, especially
when there's thematic opportunities in
in other areas. I do think that just
some of the themes, whether they be
artificial intelligence, nuclear power,
uh, quantum computing have all been in
the Russell. So it's really kind of you
know it's it's coalesed in there and
it's made it harder for active managers
but I do think it's more opportunistic
going forward because there's some some
other things that are happening right
now that we're getting excited about.
>> How many rate cuts do you need to stay
excited about small caps in the next say
12 months?
>> I think you probably need two to three
at least you know which I think is you
know kind of in the priced in camp. um
if you got four, you know, I think which
you'd bring you down to, you know, a
nice healthy three, right? I think that
that would be something that combined
with say a two plus GDP is is sort of a
if I can use the term from earlier in my
career, Goldilocks type scenario. Um
right, you know, I think that that's
that's what we'd all hope for. You don't
always get what you hope for, right? But
I think that as directionally we're
going in the right in the right place
with rate cuts and and uh the economy
seems really really stable. It was nice
to talk to you about small caps without
talking too much about interest rates on
the Federal Reserve, which is typically
all it's about. Greg, it's good to see
you. Thanks for having Thanks for being
here. Appreciate it. Greg Ta of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, a clinic there
on what's happening beneath the surface
in small caps.
>> Yeah. At a time when a lot of people do
think it's just an interest rate bet. I
just am struck by how much energy has
been put to some of the large caps, how
wide open capital markets have been to
them. at the same time that a lot of
small caps are still looking to extend
maturities and and deal with their
balance sheets and that's one reason why
it has been so tied to rates.
>> Lower interest rates help helps a lot.
We've seen a massive move since early
August off the back of the repricing of
the Federal Reserve. Coming up, we'll
catch up with Nathan Sheets of City on a
divided Federal Reserve. Chairman Pal
trying to unite the impossible over on
the FOMC. We'll get into the details of
the Fed speak so far this week in the
equity market on the S&P 500 futures
positive by about 0.2%. 2% and in the
bond market bond yields just a little
bit higher at the front end 357 and up
by 2110s to 413 from New York City
you're watching Bloomberg TV
[Music]
the open about 60 minutes away stocks
are positive across the board up by 0.15
on the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq 100 higher
by 0.2. Let's get some single names some
morning movers with more. Here's Danny.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Aadia Health to the downside
this morning down 11%. It's been jumping
around that despite the fact that Engine
Capital the FT reporting taking a stake
in the behavioral health company.
Initially shares were higher. They have
turned around the uh point of this stake
taking according to the FT in a letter
that they've reviewed is they want to
change some of their activities. They
want them to review their portfolio uh
hold back on some of their capital
intensive projects and rework this
board. A little bit of sellside action
also moving things this morning. Adobe
shares those are also falling this
morning down 1.2%. Morgan Stanley
downgrading the company to a hold,
saying that some of its decelerating
sales are a warning flag when it comes
to their Gen AI, the promise of it and
the ability for that to really generate
a return. Those are the concerns for
Morgan Stanley. So shares are down 1.2%.
Elsewhere, we are looking at PayPal
moving higher by 1.1%.
This morning, Blue Owl affirming that
they are taking a $7 billion chunk of
their buy now pay later assets. Uh,
PayPal will continue to run the client-f
facing versions or the client-f facing
activities for those buy now pay later
loans, but it allows them to move more
capital light and it's a trend we've
been seeing. Clara and a firm also been
selling some of their loans to non-bank
entities. Blue Owl just up by 7% off the
back of that. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to the
program. Open interest 30 minutes away
with Danny and Matt. Look out for that a
little bit later. Canning, you're down
to the opening bell. Let's turn to the
Federal Reserve. Fed chair J Pal
reiterating the challenging path ahead
as policy makers weigh further easing.
Limit Mike Key joins us now for more.
Good morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. I think there are
three points that people on Wall Street
may not be getting completely. So let's
go through those. When you look at the
dot plot you see that the Fed when you
compare it to the last time uh the Fed
has definitely moved down but also look
at if you're looking at the white dots
look at the dispersion for 2026 and how
much that has widened out. If you
compress some of those smaller uh the
individual dots uh in the previous
forecast, what the Fed is telling you
there and what Powell was trying to say
yesterday is we don't know whether we're
going to be able to cut rates and by how
much next year because the economy is
evolving in ways that we can't predict.
So it's not that they're saying we're
not going to do this. They're not saying
we're going to do just one cut in 2026.
They're saying that right now it looks
like we know we could do that probably,
but let's wait until we get all the
data. Second thing is what the dispute
between Steven Myron and the rest of the
board is all about is the neutral rate.
What is our star? He's not out of bounds
completely. If you look at the range of
estimates from the September SCP, it was
between 2.6% and 3.9%. He says he's in
the mid 2% area. So give him credit
could be 25 26. He's at the bottom end
but he's not out of b bounds completely.
But the real issue is that as J Pal has
said many times we cannot identify with
certainty what the neutral rate is. And
therefore he makes the case you should
not make policy based on the neutral
rate. Whereas Steven says you should.
That's what the dispute about uh at this
point. And finally, one thing that uh
hasn't gotten as much publicity that uh
I thought it would yesterday when J Pal
said, "By many measures, equity prices
are fairly highly valued." Is that an
observation or is that a warning? Uh
we've seen that from Fed officials
sometimes in the past when rates uh when
when levels get pretty high, they don't
like to talk about the stock market, but
in this case, he did. And then Alibaba
today said, "Hold my beer in terms of
pushing markets higher." Well,
precisely.
>> We'll see.
>> Mike, thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
Some rare insight comments from the
chair on valuations, and some people
might just snap back and say, "Yeah,
thank you. You're a big part of that."
>> Well, and it's only going to continue,
right? I mean, to that exact point, I'm
sorry, I'm distracted by this Oracle
deal. I have to just mention it. Oracle
is selling uh $15 billion of bonds,
including a 40-year trunch, and they're
looking for capital at 6.4%. That's the
cost of it for 40 years for a company
that is engaging in tech. Why can they
do this? Well, a lot of this is because
spreads are so tight. Why are spreads so
tight? Because the economy and the
market is being underpinned by the
Federal Reserve. So, it raises this
question of are we getting over our skis
or does it even matter because by and
that's what everybody seems to be doing.
>> It's a K-shaped debt market. Not
everyone has that kind of access in
fixed income. Let's put it that way.
Let's turn to Nathan Sheets, chief
global economist, the city, writing the
following. US firms appear to be
absorbing 60 to 70% of tariff costs
today. However, we doubt that this will
prove sustainable as a longerterm
strategy. Nathan joins us now for more.
Nathan, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you, sir. Which way do you
think it breaks if it's not a long-term
strategy?
>> Well, I think that the firms have been
able to absorb as large a share of the
tariffs as they have largely because
they frontloaded inventories and they're
drawing down those inventories. But I
think over time uh they're going to have
to pass it uh pass it through uh to
consumers and I think we're going to see
it in the CPI to the extent that that
doesn't happen then firms margins are
going to be compressed and they're going
to be thinking about how do I cut costs
and then that's bad news for the labor
market.
>> So the question again which way does it
break? Is it an inflation story? Are
they passing it on or a labor story? Are
they cutting cuts?
>> Uh the Fed has cast its vote on that
one. Uh this is a tough period. The
economy is absorbing a stagflationary
shock. The Fed's got to choose between
its mandates and J Pal's telling us,
well, it's painful. It's complex. It's
difficult. But on balance, they're
signaling greater concern about the
labor market.
>> The market agrees with them. The market
agrees this is this the prudent route to
take because essentially people are not
pricing in a real reaceleration of
inflation. Do you think that's correct?
I was very concerned about how the long
end of the the the curve was going to
respond uh to signals of Fed uh cuts and
uh as you say the long end of the curve
has responded very well uh as the Fed
has shifted more in the direction of an
easier monetary policy and of course the
the equity market is thrilled uh about
uh an easier Fed. So at least so far it
very much seems that the markets are
with the Fed and they also uh at least
uh the preponderance of investors are
more worried about the labor market. One
other angle on this that's helpful is in
the Fed's view and I'm persuaded they're
right. They see uh the stance of policy
is still being restrictive. And so what
they're doing is not providing out
outright stimulus, but they're just
reducing the constraints on the economy
as associated with monetary policy.
>> As an economist who's tasked with trying
to put together all of these disperate
trends and themes, how do you understand
the moment we're in? Is it
disinflationary? Is it reinflationary? I
mean, I've heard an argument on all
sides, and every time anyone makes an
argument, I'm like, "Yes, you're right."
And they're always the opposite sides.
Well, for the for the United States, I
think uh it's stagflationary,
and that's the reality of these tariffs.
They're putting upward pressure on
prices. They're putting downward
pressure on real incomes and spending uh
in the economy and the and uh and the
Fed's trying to react to that. Now, for
the rest of the world, the tariffs have
a different implication. For the rest of
the world, they are an adverse demand
shock, reducing demand for exports,
putting downward pressure on wages and
prices. So, I would say disinflationary
uh for the rest of the world,
stagflationary for the United States.
>> But in your global economic outlook, you
talk about how consumers and companies
were actually able to absorb it pretty
well. Do you think that story is going
to change?
>> Uh, so far, absolutely. particularly
here in the United States, we've seen uh
we've seen resilience. Now, part of that
I do think is a transitionary phase and
specifically
uh what's happened is uh the tariffs
have come on gradually and as we've seen
the tariffs coming on we say well prices
are going to be higher tomorrow. What do
you do if you think prices are going to
be higher tomorrow? You buy more today.
And so the economy has been supported
through the first six, eight months of
the year through a front-loading cycle
that's now gradually abading. And when
you get to the other side, all that
stuff that we bought during the first
half to get ahead of the tariffs, we
won't be buying during the second half
of the year. And that's where the
payback comes in, we'll see the higher
prices. And I think at that point, we
are likely to I don't think we're going
to see recession. I don't think we're
going to see a collapse in economic
activity, but a further slowing in the
pace of growth is our expectation.
>> If inflation though is a concern pushed
down the road then in 2026, what does
that mean when we have a new Fed chair
that is going to be very different than
how JPL views the world?
>> Uh this is we are learning about how
tariffs affect economies in real time.
And for me, one of the big surprises has
been that the pass through of the
tariffs into inflation has just been a
lot slower than what I'd expected. The
correlary to that is, yeah, we'll
probably still be talking about tariff
pass through into inflation during the
first part of next year, and it may be
an issue uh even in the spring when we
get a new Fed chair. Now, uh there's a
lot of issues surrounding where a Fed
chair uh uh appointed by President Trump
may ultimately go, but uh managing the
uh uh fallout of the tariffs is likely
to be one important issue that they're
struggling with.
>> When do you begin to ignore Shaman Pow?
>> I think he's got his, you know, he's got
his hands on the steering wheel
>> for how much longer?
>> You know, I'm going to I'm going to
argue uh until he leaves the the the
Absolutely. I think he's still going to
be the one who is largely going to be
dictating the direction of policy as
long as he's uh chairman of the Fed. And
I think part of that is he's got uh
credibility with the other members of
the committee and I think that gives him
uh influence and the capacity to shape
policy. Can he shape markets
>> uh to
>> he can at the moment of course but once
we get closer to May the reason I add
this as you know
>> the policy is not the interest rate it's
what happens in the market
>> that we all understand that and at some
point later this year there's going to
be someone else who gets to say you know
what I'm next and his views or hers who
knows might carry more weight than
chairman pals
>> yeah to the extent that policy is
influencing the economy today and over
uh uh the near term and as you say the
horizon where his policy will be
relevant is shortening and will continue
to shorten uh as we approach May. Uh uh
then we're left to speculate on what uh
a next Fed chair may do. Uh but I think
in terms of of setting the table and
determining where rates are uh I think
that uh Pal's in control until May.
>> Nathan, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you, sir. Nathan there of city
global chairman pal doing his best to
unite a very very divided Federal
Reserve at the moment. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara Arnand.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Treasury Secretary Scott Besset
says the US is discussing a 20 billion
swap line with Argentina and is ready to
buy the country's dollar bonds. The move
is a vote of confidence from President
Trump for leader Jav Millle after the
two met yesterday here in New York.
Argentine dollar bonds trimmed losses on
the announcement.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
Oracle down 1.7%
after the company announced plans to
raise $15 billion in investment grade
bond sales. People familiar with the
matter say the software maker is selling
debt in as many as seven parts,
including a rare 40-year bond. The deal
comes as Oracle begins to fulfill
massive cloud infrastructure deals with
the likes of OpenAI and Meta, which are
boosting expenses.
And robot umpires are coming to the
major leagues. MLB's competition
committee approved the use of the
automated ball strike system for the
2026 season. Human umpires will still
call balls and strikes, but the robot
will be introduced in the form of a
challenge system in which the human
umpire makes each call which can then be
appealed to the computer. That's
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> it's a bad time. Honestly, don't%
absolutely agree. I mean, honestly,
>> some people might say it's going to
remove the beauty of things like the the
history, the heritage
fans just super super frustrated with
this at the moment. I mean, honestly, at
a certain point, as an ump, wouldn't you
rather outsource it to a robot rather
than get blamed and have people use your
face as a meme?
>> And also, there's there's nothing really
subjective about this. Like, this is not
doing well in European football at the
moment, but there really isn't anything
subjective about this. Like, there's a
box and the ball needs to be inside it
and that's it.
>> Simple. Is the coach going to start
screaming at the robot? Can you imagine
the coach coming out gets thrown out by
the robot? I just don't want stale,
sterile games. Like were we going to
outsource everything to robots and then
just have players?
>> One thing you can outsource quite easily
I think. Anyway, for all my baseball
knowledge. Up next, setting you up for
the day ahead. We'll catch up with Vishy
Trapur of Morgan Stanley following
Oracle's $15 billion investment grade
debt deal with a 40-year piece. We'll
get into that in just a moment. Live
from New York City, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Interestingly, as it relates to the bond
market, we're seeing a lot more interest
in bonds now because with rates coming
down, investors are wondering, do I need
to go out the curve? I've been living
off my purchase money fund, but the
yields on that are coming down. That's
been a topic of hot debate among our
clients.
>> It's going to keep Kathy Jones busy.
That was Rick Worester, the president
and CEO of Charles Swap. As we count you
down to the opening bell, here's the
trading diary. Few things to look for.
400 p.m. Eastern time. Some Fed speak.
Not much today, but it builds later this
week. You'll hear from the Fed President
Mary Dailyy later on. On Thursday,
another round of jobless claims. Look
out for that. Results from Costco, too.
And a host of Fed Speak. This time from
Goulsby Bowman Williams Friday PC data
you consumer sentiment to round out the
week going into the weekend. Got a few
more days to go. Let's turn to the
Federal Reserve. Vishyur, the chief
fixed income strategist at Morgan
Stanley writing, "We think the market
pricing of Fed policy will move well
below the September 24 low. They should
skew towards a more dovish path." Vishy
joins us now for more. Vishy, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Got a big credit offering to talk about
with you in just a moment. I want to
start with your view on the Federal
Reserve because credit spreads are
already super super tight. Are you
suggesting this market's not aggressive
enough on rate pricing? I think the path
the way I think the terminal pricing
with you suggesting is not aggressive
enough.
That's basically we're saying that we'll
end up in a a terminal pricing that will
come down more than what we are
basically suggesting. My colleague Matt
Hornbach and team are calling for the
terminal pricing to come down by about
50 basis points further down. So that's
uh much more even uh more accommodative
than where we are from a rates
perspective at a time where credit
markets are wide open. John was
referring to the credit offering. Oracle
selling $15 billion of bonds this
morning, including 40-year debt, which
is rather rare, especially given the
fact that this is a technology company
that's touting things that haven't fully
been developed yet. What does that say
to you about just how accommodative this
credit market already is?
>> The credit market is accommodating. The
way I look at it is, you know, from a
fundamental basis or technical basis,
but perhaps the best thing way I would
capture it is comative spreads are
tight. Undoubtedly spreads are tight.
They're tight since 1998. Tights, but
the spreads are tight, but yields are
right is is the line I would like to go
with because if you look at the G,
you're still able to get to somewhere in
the five 6% yield. at that level of
yield there is actually pretty
substantial demand particularly from
insurance companies selling sort of
fixed annuity type of products. So that
yield of demand is insatiable as so as
long as the curve is steep you know the
steepness of the curve stays uh I think
we expect continue to see that technical
demand coming through and I we we think
we are in a good place. I'm going to put
you on the spot and be a little more
specific. That this 40-year trunch is
being sold at about a yield that Oracle
would be paying for the privilege of
borrowing for 40 years of almost 6.5%.
That might be decent for some of these
insurance companies. Is it a good buy
given that we don't know the technology
that we don't know the rates picture? We
don't know inflation. How can you
measure out 10 years? How can you
measure out 5 years, let alone 40?
>> I'm I'm uh I'm not going to cop out. I'm
not I'm not copying out but I can't I
won't talk about a particular issue that
I don't know what our involvement is and
I don't know if you've written it yet or
not on this so I will I I will pass on
specifically commenting on on this
particular bond deal but overall all I
want to say is that as long as we have
you know if you look at the fundamentals
the we have not seen any substantial
deterioration in leverage we've not seen
substantial deterioration in coverage uh
cash to debt ratios have somewhat come
down but overall We we we think that the
credit fundamentals are in a pretty
decent shape. So we have not seen you
know since postcoid we've not seen
excesses in credit that we would you
know the credit market is prone to doing
excesses really haven't seen a lot of
that also issuance total is insurance
volumes you know there's net issuance is
effectively flat not a we're not seeing
this abundance of issuance not seeing an
abundance of debt driven M&A LBO type of
activity that will sound caution you
know then the raise caution um from the
investor perspective we're not seeing
any of that. So, uh this month we might
end up with something like 160 170
billion of issuance and no uh which
basically sits the average September
from 20 post postcoid to now we are just
sitting right there. So we're not seeing
that that exuberance. I know where I
would see I would be watching is if we
start seeing a lot of debt driven M&A uh
you know a lot more LBOs and you saw
equity contribution come down debt
contribution go up. That's something we
are watching very closely. We're not
seeing any of that yet.
>> Vishy I think about this in really
simple terms. When you say the credit
spreads are tight but the yield is
right. The way I see things is when
credit spreads are tight the greater
percentage of the yield comes from the
risk-free asset. So why wouldn't I just
own that instead of assuming the
additional credit risk when I don't feel
like I'm really being rewarded for it?
How do you sort of confront that
question from clients?
>> Absolutely. We we get that question a
lot. So the kind of products that are
driving the liabilities that these
assets are supporting um simply are
looking for yields in the 5 to 7%
levels. So below that you if you're an
insurance company you're not
competitive. You can't offer a
competitive rate just purely relying on
on uh on the on the treasuries. You
can't get get that number. So you need
to get to that a competitive rate that
you need a spread product whether it's
corporate credit, securized credit, etc.
You need that spread product.
>> Isn't that a different question though?
That's like saying that these
institutional investors right now are
being forced into the product because
they've got no choice. But as an
individual investor, I've got a choice,
haven't I? I can sit here and say I
don't want to be forced into anything. I
don't like that. As an individual
individual investor, what people are
responding is buying these annuities
which is basically are effectively
giving you that like uh above you know
keep up with inflation uh above
meaningfully above money market rates
and you know annuity products are very
popular you know now their annuity
product sales have quadrupled from the
pace of post GFC to COVID levels we have
in the last few years we have seen it
quadrupled and that's basically saying
we want something better than a money
market, something safe, uh something
that could be relied on and to defeat
that liability, you need a product that
has a spread product in the as I said,
you know, five six% yield product. And
that's precisely what uh credit is
offering. And I I I mean credit in a
broad sense, not just corporate credit.
>> What I'm struck by is there hasn't been
a lot of issuance at the long end of the
yield curve. And I'm talking about
corporate and and a whole vast uh number
of of credit uh issuance. If there is
demand, Wall Street will create it. You
said that you're worried about debt
driven M&A, debt driven transactions.
Isn't this market begging for that given
the demand and the lack of supply that
really can feed that demand?
>> So, what I I would maybe I should I
should state it this way. I think we are
we'll be watching how much of debt
driven demand uh how much of debt driven
M&A, how much of deaddriven LBO happens
and what are the multiple things are
being done at. So at the moment we are
what we are seeing so far doesn't say
you know you know doesn't wrankle so
far. So if we start seeing things like
that then we will we'll be more worried.
At the moment we are not I am more
worried about a flat y a bull flatter
yield curve. A bull flattening is going
to be much more of a challenge for this
yield driven environment and that would
be much more challenging.
>> We had that at the start of September.
Is there a reason why that's just a blip
doesn't continue? it it we need
significantly more bull flattening than
we've seen. So we need basically if we
saw you know yields come down to the the
levels that we saw during in the you
know before 20 2020 in the post GFC
precoid levels where we really didn't
see that it was a flatter curve and that
really was was not the the driver what
that it's become today. So I would be
much more concerned about a significant
bull flattening more so than what we saw
last year. Vishy always a clinic. It's
good to hear from you sir. I appreciate
it. Thanks for breaking it down in
simple terms. Vishyur there of Morgan
Stanley on fixed income and the latest
developments in the credit market.
>> Yeah, not concerned even though we are
seeing a lot of issuance. It's not
enough issuance to really meet the
demand. The idea of a 40-year trunch
>> from Oracle which a lot of people
raising questions for. But you know
>> I have the same questions that you do.
40-year tech is it a 40-year bet? How
many people are buying that and holding
it for 40 years? Well, maybe some of
these companies or maybe some of these
insurance companies, if they're getting
six and a half% yield on it, do they
even care what's underlying it as long
as they keep getting paid?
>> Coming up tomorrow, bigger debate on
this one with Matt Miskin of John
Hancock Investments, Scott Croner of
City, Brent Shulie of Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance, and Nila
Richardson of ADP from New York City
this morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]